Why relationships are hard

Relationships require personal growth

Empathy

- Understanding what another is feeling
- Provides basis for connecting deeply

Compassion

- Desire to sacrifice for another
- Provides motivation to act to show love and concern

Trust

- Vulnerability to another
- Take a risk by connecting with someone

Selflessness

- Your will not my will
- Beyond my self-interest and ego

Each of these areas for growth is experienced by me as pain.  Relationships
force me to die to my own desires.  

I know that as I die I will experience the new life but it is very difficult for
me to be excited about.  I view emotionally that relating to people as a
voluntary act of self-sacrifice, that is needed but not welcomed.


Five core emotions

The circuitry in the brain signals but pleasure and pain by giving out special
neural chemicals to signify

- Joy
- Anger
- Fear
- Sadness 
- Shame

Our physiology is built for both pleasure and pain.  We experience 4 times more
pain than we experience pleasure.  More of our brain is wired to detect danger
that to make us feel good.

That explains why humans are so prone to self-medicate.  We need to find relief
for the pain by trying to game the pleasure center for additional payout.


Relationships Are EQ

Emotional intelligence involves understanding our own feelings and also what
others are feeling.  Self-awareness is required for any kind of social
intelligence.

Relationships are a demonstration of our understanding of emotions for both us
and others.  In other words, relationships are a direct reflection of emotional
intelligence.

I live in a community of highly intelligent people who often lack basic social
skills. This has led me to ponder the connection between IQ and EQ.  They are
supposed to be unrelated according to Daniel Goleman, the author of Emotional
Intelligence.

Did you know that the brain has physical circuitry that monitors every
conversation and signals when it thinks I am behaving like an asshole?  Could it
be that this personal/social monitor is underdeveloped in some people and overly
sensitive in others.  What would it be like if the monitor were never to signal
the alarm or be stuck in the alarmed state at all times?


Social Interactions

Each interaction with another person carries with it the possibility of pleasure
or pain.  Usually the reality is that I experience both.  During each
conversation my personal/social monitor is working overtime to signal the
emotional meaning of each sentence.  What should I feel based on what they just
told me?  Should I feel joy, anger, fear, sadness, or shame?  This makes every
conversation extremely intense emotionally.

My emotions may be triggered at any moment requiring my rational mind to assign
new meaning to the message and so diffuse the ticking bomb.  When emotions flare
the rational thought processes are greatly diminished since they are fully
required to deescalate the feelings.

When I am in conversation with others it is impossible for me to think deeply
about what they are saying because all of my thoughts revolve around what I am
feeling and what I should say next to feel better.  The more important the
interaction, the more intensely I feel the dangers embedded in the conversation.

Most people feel this tension in job interviews and presentation they give but
not in more casual situations.  I find that this is just my normal experience of
interactions with people.  Since my teen years I have been trying to understand
this phenomenon and learn to cope with it.  I now believe that I understand what
is happening but am still struggling to know how to handle it in a healthy way.


Areas of Growth 

To connect with others requires developing relational skills in four areas. 

Empathy - Building a deep connection requires understanding what someone is
feeling. This means replacing my internal monologue with a true desire to enter
into the experiences of someone else.  This is completely unnatural for me.  I
know it is needed but it take enormous effort to actively listen to another
person and hold back my opinions.

Compassion - As I see others in need I do have a natural desire to sacrifice for
their good.  I want to demonstrate my love and concern in a way that helps them.
 Of course, my motivations are always tainted by my own ego needs.

Trust - It is very hard for me to risk being vulnerable with others.   I suspect
that this distrust is both genetic and result of my past experiences. 

Selflessness - All humans are innately motivated to get their own needs met. 
But for relationships to flourish I must embrace the true needs of others.  This
requires both empathy (to understand) and compassion (the desire to help) before
I can make a sacrifice for another.


Transformation 

Connecting with others requires a death of some part of my current self in order
to grow into something more.  I have strong opinions about reality and how
things ought to be.  These ideas are in conflict with growing in empathy,
compassion, trust, and selflessness.

If I am going to grow in social intelligence I will need to die.   In order to
connect I must grow.  Empathy, compassion, trust, and selflessness are not my
normal state of being. If I am going to connect with others I must die.

There are some people that naturally connect with others.  This requires a
smaller adjustment for them to accommodate to the demands of relationships.  I
will never be able to operate at that level since that level of transformation
would be a complete replacement of my identity.

All transformation requires death and rebirth.  To be connected with others
requires a death of part of my personality to accommodate the new social skills
that I lack today.  This is a painful process of personal transformation that I
have skirted for most of my life.

My goal is to embrace enough personal transformation to build meaningful and
sustainable relationships. I intend to grow in empathy, compassion, trust, and
selflessness to a point where the joy of relationships can outweigh the pain.  I
will know when it is successful when there is a natural desire to meet with
others that is accompanied by a sense of joyful anticipation. This would be a
huge improvement for my life.


Why Conversation is Hard

Interacting with other people about important subjects is extremely difficult
for me. When I have a conversation I naturally take over the conversation and
seek to shape their thinking.

If I have a well formed opinion about something then once I get the platform I
am unwilling to relinquish it until the poor soul has acquiesced to my way of
thinking.

On the other hand if I am ignorant about the subject (meaning that I have not
yet formed an opinion) it is deeply troubling.  In this mode I feel ashamed of
being ignorant and cover it up by selecting a side (usually in opposition to the
currently expressed view).

To sell this ill formed position I usually take the most extreme viewpoint, with
the most dramatic examples I can think of in the few seconds I have to react. 
When the person pushes back I attempt to make an even stronger argument.

This always ends with a break in communication, a damage to the relationship,
and a round of self-loathing.  I have experienced this scenario since I was a
teenager and have worked hard to understand it.

Relational connection is based on compassion and empathy.  While they are
related they are not the same.  Compassion is the desire to act in someone's
best interest and Empathy is the ability to understand what someone is feeling.

I have a lot of compassion and desire to help when I see that they are
suffering.  But I totally lack the capacity for empathy. Someone else's
emotional state is completely opaque to me.  I am utterly oblivious to them and
if I do understand what they are feeling usually view it as an attack that must
be met.

When I look at how I relate to people I realize that every conversation is a
personal combat with a winner and loser.  Words and body language are used to
tactical advantage to gain domination. 

If I know that I will be involved in combat ahead of time then I can spend
several hours preparing a strategy and which tactics I will use. This will also
allow me to think about a kinder gentler approach to the interaction. While this
scenario produces a good outcome for the other person it is extremely costly for
me.

Note that writing does not have this peril since there is no combatant to react
to. It is the non-verbal queue in the interactions with others that trigger this
unreasonable and unwelcome emotional reaction.

In real life this is seldom practical any more than once a week, since it may
require as much as four hours of careful preparation.  Most often I find myself
in a spontaneous conversation about an important topic, which feels a lot like
an ambush.  When this happens I am triggered emotionally and cannot prevent the
described scenario.

I have over the years developed elaborate practices that minimize the damage to
my relationships from my brokenness expressed here. There are things that I do
with the following steps:

- Detach - realize that even if my opinion is valid few people want to hear it
- Stand Down - realize that the Def Con 3 signal is a false alarm
- Evaluate - calculate the level of trust and what is at stake in this relationship
- De-opine - choose not to have an opinion and disengage gracefully
- Switch - topics or leave the conversation

I recognize that most people are wired this way but I am.  My energy must go
into coping skills rather than trying to change this fundamental response
system.  I think that it is possible to lead a good life and have meaningful
relationships even with this significant disability.


