# Struggle for Control


This discussion is prompted by the book, Invitation to a Journey, by Robert
Mulholland.  This book resonated with me so much, that I decided to personalize
it and share it with others.

My need to control everything in my life is at the root of the disconnect I feel
between who I am and who I wish to be. Anxiety arises when I am driven by the
need to order and control.

In a world where order and control are not possible, anxious cares can become a
consuming passion that misshapes all my relationships, events, and activities.

When this happens I become manipulative and seek to control others and my
circumstances.  I am compelled to impose order and control on all my
relationships, events, and activities.

In this mode I can never be the person that God intends for me to be.  I am
imprisoned by the need to maintain control of my entire existence. 

I will not be God's gift to others while captivated by self protection and the
desire to manipulate others for my own purposes. I cannot be an agent of God's
grace to a broken and hurting world, while in bondage to the need to impose my
order on the world.

I am not God even though I often want to be. Changing the world is God's
responsibility and I cannot play a role until I am willing to relinquish my
claim on the throne.  I must yield to the true King in order to have any peace
at all.  Only in surrender will I be useful in the plan and purpose of God. My
own self-effort will never result in the extension of God's kingdom.

Seeking my will to prevail is like building a house of cards.  It cannot last
for long.  The tragedy of this carefully constructed matrix of relationships and
activities is how it insulates me from God's true plan for me.  I become deaf to
the voice of the Spirit. I become obsessed with getting my way and become immune
to the gentle promptings of the Spirit.

God can be viewed as one more element in my life to help me get what I want.  I
begin to see God as the defender of the status quo and eventually as the author
and protector of my system of control.  Therefore anyone that threatens my
fragile illusion of control must be an enemy of God.

My life can become plagued with stress, anxiety, fear, doubt, despair,
depression and a legion of other destructive and debilitating demons.  Tense and
troubled, I can expend tremendous amounts of energy to maintain control of my
life.

Trying to assert my will requires and enormous amount of energy and will never
be successful over time. It steals happiness, joy, and peace.  This same energy
could be used to bring healing and wholeness to a broken and hurting world.

Surrender is God's answer to this anxious, tense, stress-filled and destructive
existence. But yielding fully to God does not shield me from the uncertainties
of life.  It does not protect me from the damaging blows and disruptive events.

Even Paul experienced being held in disrepute, hungry and thirsty, ill-clad,
buffeted and homeless, persecuted and slandered, and treated as dust and the
dirt of the world.  But he also found contentment in any situation, knowing how
to face plenty and hunger, abundance and want.

We are being called to be people whose character and vitality transcend
destructive events.  We are transformed to understand the deeper order that
embraces our tenuous and fragile world. We incorporate the world's disruption,
even its destruction, into a journey toward eternal wholeness.

There is a deeper order to reality than getting our way. God's order is revealed
in the incarnation, an order that accepts crucifixion and transforms its death
into eternal life.  

As I die to myself my very life is transformed to become God's life for me and I
become truly free. I die to my way and I find true life, in living for Christ. 
I die but am soon resurrected to true life.

