# Principles of Happiness

Our journey of personal development can be greatly enhanced by identifying a set of principles that
you wish to live by. These principles allow you recognize common occurrences and a standardized way
to handle them.

Because the same situations arise over and over it is good to think about how they should be handled
in the best way. As new situations arise new thinking must be done, but the old situations can be
handled without much thought at all.

This idea of developing principles for daily life was first put forth by Ray Dalio in his book
Principles. I highly recommend reading this book, since it has had such a large impact on my
thinking.

Someday you may wish to develop a written set of principles that are highly personalized to fit your
life. But this is a daunting task. I recommend that you start simple. Develop a few key principles
that guide your decision making.

Here is the top level principles that I use.

    I control myself, but cannot control others.
    Managing emotions is essential to happiness.
    An attitude of gratitude is the key to contentment.
    Simplify the goal to focus on the important things.
    Live in the moment, tomorrow is gone, the future is not yet.
    Distinguish between needs and wants.
    Generosity produces trust.

These principles are expanded to greater detail as Principles of Happiness. You can do something
similar to get you started. For so many of us happiness can be elusive. It is worth spending time
thinking about the things that lead to a fulfilling life of peace.

...

**Read More**

* [Personal Transformation](http://seamansguide.com/book/quest/Grow.md)
* [A Seaman's Quest](http://seamansguide.com/book/quest)

