# Speaking the Common Language

Good bible translation requires transforming the words while preserving the cultural meaning. This
is far different than the concept of linguistic accuracy that most people seek out. When God became
a man, he was completely what we are, in every respect. He had our life, with all of its
frustrations and heartbreak. He spoke our language and learned skills and how to get along with
others. Yet, in our minds we see Jesus as a religious figure. But he was not.

The bible was not written with the religious and scholarly language of the day. That type of
language was used for legal and educational purposes. The language the bible is the language of
streets, marketplace, and workplace. God meets humans where they are at, coming down from a place
of glory to become lowly in order to close the gap.

It seems rather ridiculous to me, that groups would favor archaic translations of scripture because
they are seen as being more accurate. This desire for religious distance puts a barrier between us
and true understanding of God's truth. Relevance of the concepts (and words that ring true in our
hearts) are the real test of accuracy. While a word-for-word translation may seem accurate and
scholarly, it has little value in communicating truth. God speaks to all people in their native
tongue.

Good translation provides an interpretation with the same literal, moral, allegorical, and prophetic
meaning that the original authors intended for their audience. Hermeneutics is the fancy word that
is used in Seminary for this concept of cultural equivalence and relevance. It requires a deep
understanding of the context of the author: History, Culture, Language, Worldview.

...

**Read More**

* [Bible Translation](http://seamansguide.com/book/journey/BibleTranslation.md)
* [A Seaman's Guide](http://seamansguide.com/book/journey)

