# Life's Journey

Life is a journey ... from birth to death, we walk the world and try to make sense of our lives.
Life goes through seasons.  Each of these seasons is fundamentally different requiring an entirely
unique approach.  What works in one season of life is completely dysfunctional during another
season.  When I was a child I thought and acted like a child, but as an adult that is completely
inappropriate.

About every two decades there is a substantial change in the circumstances of daily life.  This
pushes us into a time of rapid growth which is always unpleasant.  Suddenly, new demands are placed
upon us and we are unprepared with them productively.  This causes a crisis where we begin asking
questions that we cannot answer.  The crisis marks the invitation to the quest for answers.

Each season of life is related to the life circumstances that we face.  As our situation changes we
are unprepared for how to success.  This causes a time of  crisis.  The season is related to events
but tends to follow a twenty year cycle time.  Your mileage may vary based on your specific
conditions.

Each season of life is governed by a primary quest, which represents deep questions of meaning.  The
answers for last season no longer work and must be replaced by deeper answers for the truths that
are now at play.  When you face a time in your life where truths you have previously embraced stop
working then you are truly at a crisis point.  This is the invitation. And so the quest begins.

On life's journey there are four major quests that must be accepted and fulfilled.  It is impossible
to live a full life without completing these quests. Each quest must be completed before the next
one begins.  In order to thrive you must fulfill each quest that is before you.  Many of us will
end our life before we have completed all of the quests, but staying in the game and seeking the
next goal gives meaning to each day.

...

**Read More**

* [Seasons of Life](https://seamansguide.com/book/journey/Seasons.md)
* [A Seaman's Journey](https://seamansguide.com/book/journey)

