# Hobbyists to Main Street

Programmers used teletype terminals or card punches to create programs. These were submitted to the
timeshare computer by the technicians and a stack of fan-folder striped paper was returned the the
results of the program output. During college I first started using video terminals (TV with a
keyboard attached) to replace the teletypes.

The early 80s saw a large number of small computer introductions for hobbyists. The three main
computers that were available when I was in college were the Commodore 64, Apple II, TRS-80. Each
of these had a full address space of 64K bytes of RAM available. Byte Magazine published updated
specs for all of the computers monthly to make us salivate and dream of what was coming out.

The IBM PC was introduced in 1981 and immediate set the standard by which all other computers were
compared. There were several different operating systems that were run on the hardware. Anyone
using a computer at this time was clearly a hobbyist who enjoyed computers for the novelty. They
didn't actually do anything useful for real people but were an expensive toy.

I started my dream job in 1981, two weeks after I graduated from college. We moved from Arizona to
Boise, Idaho where I began working with Hewlett-Packard. I was an Electrical Engineer but really
had a passion for programming. I worked for Disc Memory Division of HP where we built a massive
disk drive with 7 magnetic platters. I was now playing the big boys on the cutting edge of
technology.

...

**Read More**

* [The Personal Computer](https://shrinking-world.com/blog/PersonalComputer)
* [Tech Notes](https://shrinking-world.com/blog)

