# The Problem of Control

The greatest challenge I have ever faced is learning what I control and what I can't. This lies at
the heart of all my greatest failures and successes.

What do I control? I control what I Do, Say, Think, and Feel. I do not control what others Do, Say,
Think, and Feel. The ramifications of this are enormous.

I must control myself. I am responsible for how I act and also for my thought life and emotional
health. If I fail to take responsibility for myself then I blame others for all of the dysfunction
in my life. By not acting on things that are under my control I will squander my destiny and fall
far short of my potential.

I cannot control others. This is the second major problem. I often believe that am responsible for
others. I use judgement and criticism to control and manipulate other people. When my attempts fail
I spiral into anger. Eventually these attitudes consume my mental, emotional, and spiritual health.
I become obsessed with controlling others in my life and also the world in general. This also leads
to a squandered destiny.

Economics, politics, social reform, church leadership, education, healthcare, government, racial
reconciliation, war, famine, disease, and poverty are real concerns of everyday life. I have a part
to play in each of these. Yet my responsibility is limited to the amount of control that I have. I
have been given certain opportunities for control and I am responsible for acting on that. But
there is so much more that is beyond my control. I am actively working to gain a healthy
appreciation for my true responsibility.

...

**Read More**

* [Confessions](https://seamansguide.com/book/quest/Confessions.md)
* [A Seaman's Quest](https://seamansguide.com/book/quest)

