# Confessions of a Control Freak

By both nature and nurture I am a control freak. I tend to believe that I control everything (or at
least ought to). Every good thing I take credit for and failures are devastating to my well-being.
I naturally view my own triumphs as if I were responsible and tend to discount the role of luck in
my success. When disaster strikes I fall into despair because I realize that I can do nothing.

As an idealist I see the world as it ought to be and am outraged that there are so many things that
are wrong with it. I have a difficult time releasing my desire to control others in both my
personal relationships and the world at large. I trust in my opinions far beyond what is healthy.
This causes me to often discount the opinions of others. The need to be right all the time is a
sign of needing to always be in control.

Control issues often put me in a frenzied state of stress. "God, grant me the courage to change what
I can, the serenity to accept what I can't, and wisdom to tell the difference." This prayer has
become a lifeline to me. It highlights the challenge ... Courage to control, Acceptance to not
control, Wisdom to know what is my responsibility.

Every dysfunction in my life can be traced back to a misunderstanding of what I can and must
control. Trying to control what I can't or not controlling myself are both paths to despair and
ruin. I have spent most of my life trying to escape the falsehood that is the illusion of control.

...

**Read More**

* [Confessions](https://seamansguide.com/book/quest/Confessions.md)
* [A Seaman's Quest](https://seamansguide.com/book/quest)

