# Feeling Different

I first noticed that I was different than others in sixth grade.  I tried to do what normal kids
would do but was unsuccessful.   I tried to play sports and found it to be the most horrible
experience of my school life. Competitive sports became equated with humiliation and shame and
torture in my thinking and that idea has lasted to this day.

I struggled to explain why I didn't fit in.  I was a fat kid and was also one of the smartest kids
in the class which could explain why others felt either superior or inferior to me.   But other kids were either smart or fat that did fit in.  These simple explanations did not
seem to explain the differences that I was seeing.

I had spent fifth grade living in Greece and spoke Greek.  There was no one else that had been out
of the country.  This experience did in fact give me a fundamentally different view of the world
and politics. This was a time of race riots and war protests in which the government fired on its
own citizens and supported racist laws and mass oppression.  These events looked very different
when viewed from overseas.

Americans were deeply divided along generational lines.  Older people were seeking to preserve the
way of life that they knew and the power that the status quo gave them.  Younger generations viewed
this as immorality and were intent on disruption.  Not everyone in each generation was
completely the same, but there was a very strong bias to think a certain way.  Most people were
deeply committed to the generational mandate and did not cross the generational gap.

Sixth graders are almost certain to represent the views of their parents. So the natural philosophy
of my classmates was on the side of the conservatives, whose motto was "America, Love it or Leave
it!"  The liberal slogan of the time was "Hell No, We Won't Go". Even from the age of 10  I have
never taken my cues from my peers.  I had a deep belief in my own judgment to form my own opinions.
From early on the contrarian and rebel attitudes were my defining identity.

At the time I attributed this disconnect to having a different life experience. Now I believe that it runs deeper than that.  The views of my peers have little bearing on what I believe
to be true.  I am wired to be a contrarian and challenger to the prevailing group attitudes.
Whether the group is family, church, work, or school I refuse to be pressured into thinking a
certain way.

One of the most uncomfortable recurring experiences that occurred to me throughout middle school and
high school was the dreaded "Prep Rally".  We would gather in the gym and work up a religious
fervor on behalf of the "Eagles" (and trash-talk the "Panthers", our mortal enemies).  Years later
this has been replaced with "Elephants" versus "Donkeys".  I have a visceral reaction to blatant
nationalism in any form.

...

**Read More**

* [My Life as an Alien](https://seamansguide.com/book/journey/Alien.md)
* [A Seaman's Journey](https://seamansguide.com/book/journey)

