# Spiritual Transformation

We are created in the image of God; but we spend a lifetime taking on the likeness of God. At a genetic level we are predisposed to have God - like characteristics but the reality that that we experience in our lives in very different.

This tragedy plays out daily as we choose to be self-centered rather than God-centered. The fundamental struggle for control is what Jesus spoke about most often in his teaching. There are two kingdoms vying for loyalty and dominance - two emperors seeking to extend their empires.

The empire of ME is where I get my way. Every decision is made by me for my glory, comfort, power, and control. I will use every resource available to bend circumstances to my will. This empire is run by the laws of self-interest and is what Paul calls the deeds of the flesh.

The empire of GOD is a kingdom where God's will is done. God's will is often in conflict with my will making it impossible to serve two masters. I must choose. Not choosing is a choice.

Learning to walk in submission to God is a lifelong journey. It begins with a decision to follow Jesus whereever he leads, but that is only the start. Daily we are tested we opportunities to betray our God and revert to living the Kingdom of ME.

Spiritual formation is the process of learing to walk we God as our supreme ruler. In his empire he gets to call the shots and we follow his lead. His Spirit is forming our character so that look like Jesus.

The goal of this transformation is that we would be created in both the image and likeness of Christ. We are created in the Image of God, but we seek to take on the Likeness of God. Spiritual fruit is the evidence of transformation.

There are three major areas of spiritual formation needed to achieve wholeness. These transformations work together and result in us looking and acting like Jesus.

* Emotional Health
* Social Health
* Behavioral Health


...

**Read More**

* [Spiritual Fruit](https://seamansguide.com/book/quest/Fruit.md)
* [A Seaman's Quest](https://seamansguide.com/book/quest)

