# Lasting legacy

The sudden death of Eric Curtis at 43 shocked everyone. After years of smoking, a sudden heart
attack ended his life. My best friend had been coached by Eric and had been deeply impacted by him.
He was devastated. The funeral was held in our Junior High gymnasium, since no church would hold
all of the mourners that wanted to attend.

The funeral was not the typical affair. Many of the people attending the funeral were from diverse
ethnic backgrounds and the social norms were different than what was often seen in a white
middle-class funeral. People were expressing heartfelt grief with sound and body language. I think
this is a beautiful tribute to a life well lived.

Eric's influence lives on far past his lifetime. For better or worse, our legacy goes on long after
we are gone. Certainly, Eric's work carries part of this influence, but the true impact of a life
is always made in people. How are people changed as a result of how we live?

Eric's greatest impact was how his life affected his daughters. Those four daughters have grown into
four generations of descendants that carry a part of his legacy. Eric's worldview, attitudes,
values, and beliefs influenced his daughters even though he died when they were all 15 to 7.

I fell in love with my wife just months after Eric's death. She was his oldest daughter and probably
most deeply shaped by his life. I deeply regret that I never got to meet Eric because I know we
would have really connected in a lot of different ways. But I take comfort in knowing that I can
know Eric through the legacy that he left in the love of my life.

...

**Read More**

* [What is Legacy?](https://seamansguide.com/book/journey/Legacy.md)
* [A Seaman's Journey](https://seamansguide.com/book/journey)

