## Emotionally Healthy Relationships

### Week 5 - Dealing with the Past - August 9, 2020

**Scripture**

"If I could speak all the languages of earth and of angels, but didn't love others, I would 
only be a noisy gong or a clanging cymbal. If I had the gift of prophecy, and if I understood 
all of God's secret plans and possessed all knowledge, and if I had such faith that I could 
move mountains, but didn't love others, I would be nothing. If I gave everything I have to 
the poor and even sacrificed my body, I could boast about it; but if I didn't love others, 
I would have gained nothing.

Love is patient and kind. Love is not jealous or boastful or proud or rude. It does not 
demand its own way. It is not irritable, and it keeps no record of being wronged. It does 
not rejoice about injustice but rejoices whenever the truth wins out. Love never gives up,
never loses faith, is always hopeful, and endures through every circumstance." 
-- I Co 13


**Notes**

"If we lose our stuff to make a point, then maybe we should lose the point
to focus on our stuff." -- Putty Putnam

Sometimes there is a discrepancy between how we want to be seen and the reality of our lives.


We often need to understand our past family and experiences in order to gain healing.
This can let Jesus give us freedom to face the future.

We see generational brokenness play out through the family of Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, 
and Joseph.  Every generation demonstrated the same patterns of sin until the power was broken.


**Discussion Questions**

* What is one area where you would like to gain freedom?
* How does your family and past experience influence you today?
* What is the Spirit speaking over you?

