## All Hail King Jesus

### Week 4 - Everlasting Father - Todd Beilman  - Dec 20, 2020

**Scripture**


Zep 3  - The Message

9-13 
"In the end I will turn things around for the people.
    I'll give them a language undistorted, unpolluted,
Words to address God in worship
    and, united, to serve me with their shoulders to the wheel.
They'll come from beyond the Ethiopian rivers,
    they'll come praying—
All my scattered, exiled people
    will come home with offerings for worship.
You'll no longer have to be ashamed
    of all those acts of rebellion.
I'll have gotten rid of your arrogant leaders.
    No more pious strutting on my holy hill!
I'll leave a core of people among you
    who are poor in spirit—
What's left of Israel that's really Israel.
    They'll make their home in God.
This core holy people
    will not do wrong.
They won't lie,
    won't use words to flatter or seduce.
Content with who they are and where they are,
    unanxious, they'll live at peace.”

14-15 
So sing, Daughter Zion!
    Raise the rafters, Israel!
Daughter Jerusalem,
    be happy! celebrate!
God has reversed his judgments against you
    and sent your enemies off chasing their tails.
From now on, God is Israel's king,
    in charge at the center.
There's nothing to fear from evil
    ever again!
God Is Present Among You

16-17 
Jerusalem will be told:
    "Don't be afraid.
Dear Zion,
    don't despair.
Your God is present among you,
    a strong Warrior there to save you.
Happy to have you back, he'll calm you with his love
    and delight you with his songs.

18-20 
"The accumulated sorrows of your exile
    will dissipate.
I, your God, will get rid of them for you.
    You've carried those burdens long enough.
At the same time, I'll get rid of all those
    who've made your life miserable.
I'll heal the maimed;
    I'll bring home the homeless.
In the very countries where they were hated
    they will be venerated.
On Judgment Day
    I'll bring you back home—a great family gathering!
You'll be famous and honored
    all over the world.
You'll see it with your own eyes—
    all those painful partings turned into reunions!”
        God's Promise.
  
  
Exodus 34:4-7 - The Message

So Moses cut two tablets of stone just like the originals. He got up early in the 
morning and climbed Mount Sinai as God had commanded him, carrying the two tablets 
of stone. God descended in the cloud and took up his position there beside him and 
called out the name, God. God passed in front of him and called out, "God, God, a 
God of mercy and grace, endlessly patient—so much love, so deeply true—loyal in 
love for a thousand generations, forgiving iniquity, rebellion, and sin. 


Luke 15 - The Message

11-12 Then he said, "There was once a man who had two sons. The younger said to his father, 'Father, I want right now what's coming to me.'

12-16 "So the father divided the property between them. It wasn't long before the younger son packed his bags and left for a distant country. There, undisciplined and dissipated, he wasted everything he had. After he had gone through all his money, there was a bad famine all through that country and he began to hurt. He signed on with a citizen there who assigned him to his fields to slop the pigs. He was so hungry he would have eaten the corncobs in the pig slop, but no one would give him any.

17-20 "That brought him to his senses. He said, 'All those farmhands working for my father sit down to three meals a day, and here I am starving to death. I'm going back to my father. I'll say to him, Father, I've sinned against God, I've sinned before you; I don't deserve to be called your son. Take me on as a hired hand.' He got right up and went home to his father.

20-21 "When he was still a long way off, his father saw him. His heart pounding, he ran out, embraced him, and kissed him. The son started his speech: 'Father, I've sinned against God, I've sinned before you; I don't deserve to be called your son ever again.'

22-24 "But the father wasn't listening. He was calling to the servants, 'Quick. Bring a clean set of clothes and dress him. Put the family ring on his finger and sandals on his feet. Then get a grain-fed heifer and roast it. We're going to feast! We're going to have a wonderful time! My son is here—given up for dead and now alive! Given up for lost and now found!' And they began to have a wonderful time.

25-27 "All this time his older son was out in the field. When the day's work was done he came in. As he approached the house, he heard the music and dancing. Calling over one of the houseboys, he asked what was going on. He told him, 'Your brother came home. Your father has ordered a feast—barbecued beef!—because he has him home safe and sound.'

28-30 "The older brother stalked off in an angry sulk and refused to join in. His father came out and tried to talk to him, but he wouldn't listen. The son said, 'Look how many years I've stayed here serving you, never giving you one moment of grief, but have you ever thrown a party for me and my friends? Then this son of yours who has thrown away your money on whores shows up and you go all out with a feast!'

31-32 "His father said, 'Son, you don't understand. You're with me all the time, and everything that is mine is yours—but this is a wonderful time, and we had to celebrate. This brother of yours was dead, and he's alive! He was lost, and he's found!'”
John 14 - room at my house


Ep 1:3-11 - The Message

3-6 How blessed is God! And what a blessing he is! He's the Father of our Master, Jesus Christ, and takes us to the high places of blessing in him. Long before he laid down earth's foundations, he had us in mind, had settled on us as the focus of his love, to be made whole and holy by his love. Long, long ago he decided to adopt us into his family through Jesus Christ. (What pleasure he took in planning this!) He wanted us to enter into the celebration of his lavish gift-giving by the hand of his beloved Son.

7-10 Because of the sacrifice of the Messiah, his blood poured out on the altar of the Cross, we're a free people—free of penalties and punishments chalked up by all our misdeeds. And not just barely free, either. Abundantly free! He thought of everything, provided for everything we could possibly need, letting us in on the plans he took such delight in making. He set it all out before us in Christ, a long-range plan in which everything would be brought together and summed up in him, everything in deepest heaven, everything on planet earth.

11-12 It's in Christ that we find out who we are and what we are living for. Long before we first heard of Christ and got our hopes up, he had his eye on us, had designs on us for glorious living, part of the overall purpose he is working out in everything and everyone.



**Notes**

Everlasting Father 

- This is often confusing based on our life experience
- God is what the perfect Father should be
- We may have difficulty based on our earthly father

Inadequate Fathers

- Never satisfied Dad
- Time-bomb Dad
- Emotionally distant Dad
- Absent Dad

Adoption 

- founded on a Father's love 
- unimaginable sacrifice



**Discussion Questions**

* How is your image of God affected by your life experiences?
* What is the Spirit's invitation to you?
* How has God's love surprised you recently?


