## Emotionally Healthy Relationships

### Week 8 - Rule of Life 

Todd Beilman - August 30, 2020


**Scripture**

Do me a favor: Agree with each other, love each other, be deep-spirited friends.
Don't push your way to the front; don't sweet-talk your way to the top. Put
yourself aside, and help others get ahead. Don't be obsessed with getting your
own advantage. Forget yourselves long enough to lend a helping hand.

5-8 Think of yourselves the way Christ Jesus thought of himself. He had equal
status with God but didn't think so much of himself that he had to cling to the
advantages of that status no matter what. Not at all. When the time came, he set
aside the privileges of deity and took on the status of a slave, became human!
Having become human, he stayed human. It was an incredibly humbling process. He
didn't claim special privileges. Instead, he lived a selfless, obedient life and
then died a selfless, obedient death—and the worst kind of death at that—a
crucifixion. -- Php 2:2

---

17-18 God is love. When we take up permanent residence in a life of love, we
live in God and God lives in us. This way, love has the run of the house,
becomes at home and mature in us, so that we're free of worry on Judgment
Day—our standing in the world is identical with Christ's. There is no room in
love for fear. Well-formed love banishes fear. Since fear is crippling, a
fearful life—fear of death, fear of judgment—is one not yet fully formed in
love.

19 We, though, are going to love—love and be loved. First we were loved, now we
love. He loved us first.

20-21 If anyone boasts, "I love God,” and goes right on hating his brother or
sister, thinking nothing of it, he is a liar. If he won't love the person he can
see, how can he love the God he can't see? The command we have from Christ is
blunt: Loving God includes loving people. You've got to love both. -- I Jn 4:17

---

Jesus said, "The first in importance is, 'Listen, Israel: The Lord your God is
one; so love the Lord God with all your passion and prayer and intelligence and
energy.' And here is the second: 'Love others as well as you love yourself.'
There is no other commandment that ranks with these.” -- Mark 12:29


**Notes**

The digital world is affecting how we connect or remain disconnected.

It is extremely hard to stay connected with one another. And the consequences
are devastating to all of our relationships.

If we think we are making a difference and not involved with real people then we
are deceiving ourselves.

Angry Facebook post will never change anyone's opinion.

Jesus was God who became a man show that we should love each other.

To love God is to love people.
All men will know you are my disciples

The reason for the world 

Are you expressing a cultural frustration or a kingdom frustration for what is wrong?

How are you manifesting Christ in  your relationships?

The problems begin with us.

Agreement is not required for love and unity.  - Heidi Miller

It must be real where we live.


**Discussion Questions**

* What decisions will you make to embrace God's authority in your life?
* What does the term "Rule of Life” mean to you?
* What attitudes is the Spirit pinpointing for you?

