## In God We Trust

### Week 1 - Who do you trust? - Todd Beilman  - Nov 1, 2020


**Scripture**

Gen 15

After all these things, this word of God came to Abram in a vision: "Don't be afraid, Abram. I'm your shield. 
Your reward will be grand!” Abram said, "God, Master, what use are your gifts as long as I'm childless and 
Eliezer of Damascus is going to inherit everything?” Abram continued, "See, you've given me no children, and 
now a mere house servant is going to get it all.”

Then God's Message came: "Don't worry, he won't be your heir; a son from your body will be your heir.” Then 
he took him outside and said, "Look at the sky. Count the stars. Can you do it? Count your descendants! 
You're going to have a big family, Abram!”

And he believed! Believed God! God declared him "Set-Right-with-God.” God continued, "I'm the same God who 
brought you from Ur of the Chaldees and gave you this land to own.”


Isaiah 14

When God has given you time to recover from the abuse and trouble and harsh servitude that you had to 
endure, you can amuse yourselves by taking up this satire, a taunt against the king of Babylon:

Can you believe it? The tyrant is gone!
The tyranny is over!
God has broken the rule of the wicked,
the power of the bully-rulers
That crushed many people.
A relentless rain of cruel outrage
Established a violent rule of anger
rife with torture and persecution.

And now it's over, the whole earth quietly at rest.
Burst into song! Make the rafters ring!
Ponderosa pine trees are happy,
giant Lebanon cedars are relieved, saying,
"Since you've been cut down,
there's no one around to cut us down.”
And the underworld dead are all excited,
preparing to welcome you when you come.
Getting ready to greet you are the ghostly dead,
all the famous names of earth.
All the buried kings of the nations
will stand up on their thrones
With well-prepared speeches,
royal invitations to death:
"Now you are as nothing as we are!
Make yourselves at home with us dead folks!”

This is where your pomp and fine music led you, Babylon,
to your underworld private chambers,
A king-size mattress of maggots for repose
and a quilt of crawling worms for warmth.

What a comedown this, O Babylon!
Daystar! Son of Dawn!
Flat on your face in the underworld mud,
you, famous for flattening nations!

You said to yourself,
"I'll climb to heaven.
I'll set my throne
over the stars of God.
I'll run the assembly of angels
that meets on sacred Mount Zaphon.
I'll climb to the top of the clouds.
I'll take over as King of the Universe!”

But you didn't make it, did you?
Instead of climbing up, you came down—
Down with the underground dead,
down to the abyss of the Pit.
People will stare and muse:
"Can this be the one
Who terrorized earth and its kingdoms,
turned earth to a moonscape,
Wasted its cities,
shut up his prisoners to a living death?”

Other kings get a decent burial,
honored with eulogies and placed in a tomb.
But you're dumped in a ditch unburied,
like a stray dog or cat,
Covered with rotting bodies,
murdered and indigent corpses.
Your dead body desecrated, mutilated—
no state funeral for you!
You've left your land in ruins,
left a legacy of massacre.
The progeny of your evil life
will never be named. Oblivion!

Get a place ready to slaughter the sons of the wicked
and wipe out their father's line.
Unthinkable that they should own a square foot of land
or desecrate the face of the world with their cities!


Judges 6-7

One time when the People of Israel had cried out to God because of Midian, God sent them a prophet with this message: "God, the God of Israel, says,

I delivered you from Egypt,
    I freed you from a life of slavery;
I rescued you from Egypt's brutality
    and then from every oppressor;
I pushed them out of your way
    and gave you their land.

God said to Gideon, "You have too large an army with you. I can't turn Midian over to them like this—they'll take all the credit, saying, 'I did it all myself,' and forget about me. Make a public announcement: 'Anyone afraid, anyone who has any qualms at all, may leave Mount Gilead now and go home.'” Twenty-two companies headed for home. Ten companies were left.

God said to Gideon: "There are still too many. Take them down to the stream and I'll make a final cut. When I say, 'This one goes with you,' he'll go. When I say, 'This one doesn't go,' he won't go.” 


God said to Gideon: "I'll use the three hundred men who lapped at the stream to save you and give Midian into your hands. All the rest may go home.”

After Gideon took all their provisions and trumpets, he sent all the Israelites home. He took up his position with the three hundred. The camp of Midian stretched out below him in the valley.

That night, God told Gideon: "Get up and go down to the camp. I've given it to you. If you have any doubts about going down, go down with Purah your armor bearer; when you hear what they're saying, you'll be bold and confident.” He and his armor bearer Purah went down near the place where sentries were posted. Midian and Amalek, all the easterners, were spread out on the plain like a swarm of locusts. And their camels! Past counting, like grains of sand on the seashore!

He divided the three hundred men into three companies. He gave each man a trumpet and an empty jar, with a torch in the jar. He said, "Watch me and do what I do. When I get to the edge of the camp, do exactly what I do. When I and those with me blow the trumpets, you also, all around the camp, blow your trumpets and shout, 'For God and for Gideon!'”

Gideon and his hundred men got to the edge of the camp at the beginning of the middle watch, just after the sentries had been posted. They blew the trumpets, at the same time smashing the jars they carried. All three companies blew the trumpets and broke the jars. They held the torches in their left hands and the trumpets in their right hands, ready to blow, and shouted, "A sword for God and for Gideon!” They were stationed all around the camp, each man at his post. The whole Midianite camp jumped to its feet. They yelled and fled. When the three hundred blew the trumpets, God aimed each Midianite's sword against his companion, all over the camp. They ran for their lives


Nu 23:19

God is not man, one given to lies,
    and not a son of man changing his mind.
Does he speak and not do what he says?
    Does he promise and not come through?
I was brought here to bless;
    and now he's blessed—how can I change that?
 
 
Ps 89:34   

I'll never throw them out,
    never abandon or disown them.
Do you think I'd withdraw my holy promise?
    or take back words I'd already spoken?
I've given my word, my whole and holy word;
    do you think I would lie to David?
    
    
**Notes**

In God we trust!  It's on our money, but do we really?   Having a motto doesn't make it real.

Examples in the Bible

* Abraham 
* Gideon
* Thomas

Our trust can be in

* money
* success 
* politics
* myself


Reasons to trust God

* God never lies. 
* God has proven faithful in the past. 1Ki 8:56



**Discussion Questions**

* What do we trust in most?
* What is God inviting you into?
* What is idolatry?
