## We the Kingdom People

### Week 4 - Identity - Todd Beilman  - Sep 27, 2020

**Scripture**

Luke 4:1-2 Now Jesus, full of the Holy Spirit, left the Jordan and was led by the Spirit into the wild. For forty wilderness days and nights he was tested by the Devil. He ate nothing during those days, and when the time was up he was hungry.

3 The Devil, playing on his hunger, gave the first test: "Since you're God's Son, command this stone to turn into a loaf of bread.”

4 Jesus answered by quoting Deuteronomy: "It takes more than bread to really live.”

5-7 For the second test he led him up and spread out all the kingdoms of the earth on display at once. Then the Devil said, "They're yours in all their splendor to serve your pleasure. I'm in charge of them all and can turn them over to whomever I wish. Worship me and they're yours, the whole works.”

8 Jesus refused, again backing his refusal with Deuteronomy: "Worship the Lord your God and only the Lord your God. Serve him with absolute single-heartedness.”

9-11 For the third test the Devil took him to Jerusalem and put him on top of the Temple. He said, "If you are God's Son, jump. It's written, isn't it, that 'he has placed you in the care of angels to protect you; they will catch you; you won't so much as stub your toe on a stone'?”

12 "Yes,” said Jesus, "and it's also written, 'Don't you dare tempt the Lord your God.'”

13 That completed the testing. The Devil retreated temporarily, lying in wait for another opportunity.
To Set the Burdened Free

14-15 Jesus returned to Galilee powerful in the Spirit. News that he was back spread through the countryside. He taught in their meeting places to everyone's acclaim and pleasure.

16-21 He came to Nazareth where he had been reared. As he always did on the Sabbath, he went to the meeting place. When he stood up to read, he was handed the scroll of the prophet Isaiah. Unrolling the scroll, he found the place where it was written,

God's Spirit is on me;
    he's chosen me to preach the Message of good news to the poor,
Sent me to announce pardon to prisoners and
    recovery of sight to the blind,
To set the burdened and battered free,
    to announce, "This is God's year to act!”

He rolled up the scroll, handed it back to the assistant, and sat down. Every eye in the place was on him, intent. Then he started in, "You've just heard Scripture make history. It came true just now in this place.”


**Notes**

"The reason believers fall into sin is because they fail to understand identity and purpose in Christ." — John Wimber

We cannot see an accurate reflection in a shattered mirror.

Not understanding our identity can paralyze us from acting.

Identity of Jesus - Luke 4 - Challenge to identity and how Jesus responded

Our Identity

* Chosen
* Loved
* Child of God
* Community of God
* Heir
* Citizen of God's kingdom
* A new creation


**Discussion Questions**

* How does your identity get confused?
* What reminds you of your true identity in Christ?
* How can regular practices and habits build up your true identity?

