## We the Kingdom People

### Week 7 - Healing - Jenny Beilman - Oct 18, 2020

**Scripture**

John 5:19 -
So Jesus explained himself at length. "I'm telling you this straight. The Son can't independently do a thing, only what he sees the Father doing. What the Father does, the Son does. The Father loves the Son and includes him in everything he is doing.

John 5:30-33 - 
"I can't do a solitary thing on my own: I listen, then I decide. You can trust my decision because I'm not out to get my own way but only to carry out orders.

Mat 10:1 - 
The prayer was no sooner prayed than it was answered. Jesus called twelve of his followers and sent them into the ripe fields. He gave them power to kick out the evil spirits and to tenderly care for the bruised and hurt lives.

Mat 10:5-8 -
Jesus sent his twelve harvest hands out with this charge:
"Don't begin by traveling to some far-off place to convert unbelievers. And don't try to be dramatic by tackling some public enemy. Go to the lost, confused people right here in the neighborhood. Tell them that the kingdom is here. Bring health to the sick. Raise the dead. Touch the untouchables. Kick out the demons. You have been treated generously, so live generously."

Jn 14:11-14 -
"Believe me: I am in my Father and my Father is in me. If you can't believe that, believe what you see—these works. The person who trusts me will not only do what I'm doing but even greater things, because I, on my way to the Father, am giving you the same work to do that I've been doing. You can count on it. From now on, whatever you request along the lines of who I am and what I am doing, I'll do it. That's how the Father will be seen for who he is in the Son. I mean it. Whatever you request in this way, I'll do.


**Notes**

The topic of healing is often misunderstood and neglected within the church.

Types of healing

* Physical
* Emotional
* Deliverance

We want to learn about healing because it was important in the ministry of Jesus.

What is God doing today?  Each day we have opportunities to join God.

Jesus gives the ministry of healing to his disciples. From the 12, to the 72, then everyone.

We must be natural when praying for healing.

Anything can happen when we are being obedient to what God is doing.

A ship in harbor is safe, but that's not what ships of built for.

5-step prayer model
* Interview "How can I pray for you?"
* Diagnosis - "What is happening?"
* Prayer selection - "How can I pray?"
* Pray - "Watch for what God is doing?"
* Next steps - "How to continue the healing process"


**Discussion Questions**

* Why is it important for us to understand the topic of healing?
* What are the five steps in the Vineyard prayer model?
* How has healing had an impact on your life?


