## We the Kingdom People

### Week 6 - Prophesy - Heidi Miller - Oct 11, 2020

**Scripture**

John 10:1-5  - 
"Let me set this before you as plainly as I can. If a person climbs over or through the fence of a sheep pen instead of going through the gate, you know he's up to no good—a sheep rustler! The shepherd walks right up to the gate. The gatekeeper opens the gate to him and the sheep recognize his voice. He calls his own sheep by name and leads them out. When he gets them all out, he leads them and they follow because they are familiar with his voice. They won't follow a stranger's voice but will scatter because they aren't used to the sound of it.”

I Co 14:1 (NIV) - 
Follow the way of love and eagerly desire gifts of the Spirit, especially prophecy.  But the one who prophesies speaks to people for their strengthening, encouraging and comfort.

I Co 14:1 (MSG) - 
Go after a life of love as if your life depended on it — because it does. Give yourselves to the gifts God gives you. Most of all, try to proclaim his truth. When you proclaim his truth in everyday speech, you're letting others in on the truth so that they can grow and be strong and experience his presence with you.

I Co 13:8-12 - 
Love never dies. Inspired speech will be over some day; praying in tongues will end; understanding will reach its limit. We know only a portion of the truth, and what we say about God is always incomplete. But when the Complete arrives, our incompletes will be canceled.
We don't yet see things clearly. We're squinting in a fog, peering through a mist. But it won't be long before the weather clears and the sun shines bright! We'll see it all then, see it all as clearly as God sees us, knowing him directly just as he knows us!

I Co 14:29 -
And no more than two or three speakers at a meeting, with the rest of you listening and taking it to heart. Take your turn, no one person taking over. Then each speaker gets a chance to say something special from God, and you all learn from each other. If you choose to speak, you're also responsible for how and when you speak. When we worship the right way, God doesn't stir us up into confusion; he brings us into harmony. This goes for all the churches — no exceptions.

I Th 5:19 - 
Don't suppress the Spirit, and don't stifle those who have a word from the Master. On the other hand, don't be gullible. Check out everything, and keep only what's good. Throw out anything tainted with evil.
May God himself, the God who makes everything holy and whole, make you holy and whole, put you together—spirit, soul, and body—and keep you fit for the coming of our Master, Jesus Christ. The One who called you is completely dependable. If he said it, he'll do it!


**Notes**

There is a shift between Old Testament prophesy and that of the New Testament.

New Testament is for all those who have the Spirit.  It focuses on encouragement rather
that correction.

We must test the words spoken by those who prophesy.

God is speaking to us much more than we think he is.

What should you do if you think God is speaking?
* Pray about the message
* Ask for wisdom about what to do with it
* Speak in love

It is not your word; it is his
* Consult someone you respect
* Is there peace?
* Use a normal voice
* Be humble
* Say what God gives and then stop

God leads in many ways - prophesy is only one

How to test the prophesy
* Look at who is giving the prophesy - Is there good fruit in their lives?
* Is it consistent with what you know of God?
* Does it bring life and joy?


**Discussion Questions**

* When has your life been impacted by prophesy?
* What advice does Paul give?
* Why do people sometimes become overly dramatic when sharing God's words?
* How do we share a word that we are not totally sure about?

