## We the Kingdom People

### Week 2 - Here and Not Yet - Rachel Dawson  - Sep 13, 2020

**Scripture**

Dan 2:31-45

"What you saw, O king, was a huge statue standing before you, striking in appearance. And terrifying. The head of the statue was pure gold, the chest and arms were silver, the belly and hips were bronze, the legs were iron, and the feet were an iron-ceramic mixture. While you were looking at this statue, a stone cut out of a mountain by an invisible hand hit the statue, smashing its iron-ceramic feet. Then the whole thing fell to pieces—iron, tile, bronze, silver, and gold, smashed to bits. It was like scraps of old newspapers in a vacant lot in a hot dry summer, blown every which way by the wind, scattered to oblivion. But the stone that hit the statue became a huge mountain, dominating the horizon. This was your dream.

"And now we'll interpret it for the king. You, O king, are the most powerful king on earth. The God of heaven has given you the works: rule, power, strength, and glory. He has put you in charge of men and women, wild animals and birds, all over the world—you're the head ruler, you are the head of gold. But your rule will be taken over by another kingdom, inferior to yours, and that one by a third, a bronze kingdom, but still ruling the whole land, and after that by a fourth kingdom, ironlike in strength. Just as iron smashes things to bits, breaking and pulverizing, it will bust up the previous kingdoms.

"But throughout the history of these kingdoms, the God of heaven will be building a kingdom that will never be destroyed, nor will this kingdom ever fall under the domination of another. In the end it will crush the other kingdoms and finish them off and come through it all standing strong and eternal. It will be like the stone cut from the mountain by the invisible hand that crushed the iron, the bronze, the ceramic, the silver, and the gold.

"The great God has let the king know what will happen in the years to come. This is an accurate telling of the dream, and the interpretation is also accurate.”


**Notes**

Think about your favorite story.  What makes the story great?

Conflict resolved

The greatest story that will ever be told

What does it mean to be in the story

God's authority is here already & not yet

We still have pain, sickness, hatred, and grief


Kingdom Concepts

* Dwell - The entire gospel can be summed up as, "God With Us”.
* Dominion - God's order is coming to earth.
* Disciples - everyone is invited to the table
* Dynasty - no more slaves, only children


**Discussion Questions**

* What is the invitation of the Spirit for you (in the 4 Ds of the message)?
* What is the heart of the Father for you?
* What does it mean to be adopted into God's family?

