## All Hail King Jesus

### Week 1 - The Gift - Todd Beilman  - Nov 29, 2020

**Scripture**

Isaiah 9 - The Message

The people who walked in darkness
    have seen a great light.
For those who lived in a land of deep shadows—
    light! sunbursts of light!

For a child has been born—for us!
    the gift of a son—for us!

He'll take over
    the running of the world.
His names will be: Amazing Counselor,
    Strong God,
Eternal Father,
    Prince of Wholeness.
His ruling authority will grow,
    and there'll be no limits to the wholeness he brings.
He'll rule from the historic David throne
    over that promised kingdom.
He'll put that kingdom on a firm footing
    and keep it going
With fair dealing and right living,
    beginning now and lasting always.
The zeal of God-of-the-Angel-Armies
    will do all this.
    
Isaiah 9 - NIV

For to us a child is born,
    to us a son is given,
    and the government will be on his shoulders.

And he will be called
    Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God,
    Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace.
 
Of the greatness of his government and peace
    there will be no end.
    
    
**Notes**

Searching for Christmas

Isaiah spoke to a people in turmoil to give them hope.

We too are in a time of turmoil.  When everything is shaken we must find our hope in Christ.

Names are important because they speak about a deeper reality of character.

Wonderful Counselor 

* What does this mean in your life?  
* Do you follow his counsel?

What are you looking for?

* Health
* Safety
* Job security
* Save your marriage
* Relationships

Stay connected and contact us with any needs you may have.


**Discussion Questions**

* How is Jesus your Wonderful Counselor?
* How is God meeting the core needs in your life?
* What does dependence on God look like for you right now?


