## Acts Sermon Series


### Week 7 - Acts 13 - Church Leaders - June 28, 2020

**Scripture**

Among the prophets and teachers of the church at Antioch of Syria were Barnabas, Simeon 
(called "the black man”), Lucius (from Cyrene), Manaen (the childhood companion of King 
Herod Antipas), and Saul. One day as these men were worshiping the Lord and fasting, the 
Holy Spirit said, "Dedicate Barnabas and Saul for the special work to which I have called 
them.” So after more fasting and prayer, the men laid their hands on them and sent them on 
their way. -- Acts 13:1

Joseph, a Levite from Cyprus, whom the apostles called Barnabas (which means "son of encouragement”), sold a field he owned and brought the money and put it at the apostles' feet. -- Acts 4:36

A great wave of persecution began that day, sweeping over the church in Jerusalem; and all the believers except the apostles were scattered through the regions of Judea and Samaria. (Some devout men came and buried Stephen with great mourning.) But Saul was going everywhere to destroy the church. He went from house to house, dragging out both men and women to throw them into prison. -- Acts 8:1


**Notes:**

How can two people that are so different be united in hearts and purpose.

The gospel breaks down all walls between us as we are transformed by God's purpose in our lives.


**Discussion Questions:**

* How is God calling you to be reconciled with others that are very different than you?

* How will your response affect your effectiveness in God's work?

* What types of people is God's inviting you to love?

