## Emotionally Healthy Relationships

### Week 7 - Fighting Clean - Todd & Jenny Beilman  - August 23, 2020

**Scripture**


Blessed are the peacemakers for they shall be called children of God. -- Mt 5:9

At about the same time, the disciples came to Jesus asking, 
"Who gets the highest rank in God's kingdom?”

2-5 For an answer Jesus called over a child, whom he stood 
in the middle of the room, and said, "I'm telling you, once 
and for all, that unless you return to square one and start 
over like children, you're not even going to get a look at the kingdom, 
let alone get in. Whoever becomes simple and elemental again, like this child, 
will rank high in God's kingdom. What's more, when you receive the childlike on 
my account, it's the same as receiving me.

6-7 "But if you give them a hard time, bullying or taking advantage of their 
simple trust, you'll soon wish you hadn't. You'd be better off dropped in the 
middle of the lake with a millstone around your neck. Doom to the world for giving 
these God-believing children a hard time! Hard times are inevitable, but you don't 
have to make it worse—and it's doomsday to you if you do. -- Mt 18:1

---

The king told Ashpenaz, head of the palace staff, to get some Israelites
from the royal family and nobility—young men who were healthy and handsome,
intelligent and well-educated, good prospects for leadership positions in the
government, perfect specimens!—and indoctrinate them in the Babylonian language
and the lore of magic and fortunetelling. The king then ordered that they be
served from the same menu as the royal table—the best food, the finest wine.
After three years of training they would be given positions in the king's court.

Four young men from Judah—Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah—were among
those selected. The head of the palace staff gave them Babylonian names: Daniel
was named Belteshazzar, Hananiah was named Shadrach, Mishael was named Meshach,
Azariah was named Abednego.

But Daniel determined that he would not defile himself by eating the king's
food or drinking his wine, so he asked the head of the palace staff to exempt
him from the royal diet. The head of the palace staff, by God's grace, liked
Daniel, but he warned him, "I'm afraid of what my master the king will do. He is
the one who assigned this diet and if he sees that you are not as healthy as the
rest, he'll have my head!”

But Daniel appealed to a steward who had been assigned by the head of the
palace staff to be in charge of Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah: "Try us
out for ten days on a simple diet of vegetables and water. Then compare us with
the young men who eat from the royal menu. Make your decision on the basis of
what you see.”

The steward agreed to do it and fed them vegetables and water for ten
days. At the end of the ten days they looked better and more robust than all the
others who had been eating from the royal menu. So the steward continued to
exempt them from the royal menu of food and drink and served them only
vegetables.
-- Daniel 1:8-16

---

Let me give you a new command: Love one another. In the same way I loved you,
you love one another. This is how everyone will recognize that you are my
disciples—when they see the love you have for each other. -- Jn 13:34-35

---

"You're familiar with the old written law, 'Love your friend,' and its
unwritten companion, 'Hate your enemy.' I'm challenging that. I'm telling you to
love your enemies. Let them bring out the best in you, not the worst. When
someone gives you a hard time, respond with the energies of prayer, for then you
are working out of your true selves, your God-created selves. This is what God
does. He gives his best—the sun to warm and the rain to nourish—to everyone,
regardless: the good and bad, the nice and nasty. If all you do is love the
lovable, do you expect a bonus? Anybody can do that. If you simply say hello to
those who greet you, do you expect a medal? Any run-of-the-mill sinner does
that. -- Mt 5:43


**Notes**

If we don't interact emotionally healthy then it is sin.

How do we fight clean?

Peacemakers are willing to listen and seek to understand.

Peace Breaker/Peace Keepers (sharks and turtles)

You must set boundaries for fighting.

Commitments: 

    no name calling, no allies for justification, limit on withdrawal, no grenades,
    choose the right time, be Christian even in conflict

Daniel found common ground and proposed a test.

True peacemaking disrupts the false peace.

Clean fighting protects the relationship while resolving conflict.

Solvable problems vs. perpetual problems

Self-examination is the first step to resolving conflict.

Go to the other person as soon as possible.

Find a mediator if you can't resolve on your own.

Practical Steps to fight clean

    I notice ...
    I value ...
    When you ... I feel ...
    Your request ...
    Play back the conversation
    Agree on a compromise


**Discussion Questions**

* When have you found it difficult to love someone?
* Who do you still need to make peace with?
* When have you sought forgiveness and reconciliation? What happened?


