## We the Kingdom People

### Week 1 - Demonstrating the Kingdom - Sep 6, 2020

**Scripture**

Lk 11:5-6 Then he said, "Imagine what would happen if you went to a friend in the middle of the night and said, 'Friend, lend me three loaves of bread. An old friend traveling through just showed up, and I don't have a thing on hand.'

7 "The friend answers from his bed, 'Don't bother me. The door's locked; my children are all down for the night; I can't get up to give you anything.'

8 "But let me tell you, even if he won't get up because he's a friend, if you stand your ground, knocking and waking all the neighbors, he'll finally get up and get you whatever you need.

9 "Here's what I'm saying:

Ask and you'll get;
Seek and you'll find;
Knock and the door will open.

10-13 "Don't bargain with God. Be direct. Ask for what you need. This is not a cat-and-mouse, hide-and-seek game we're in. If your little boy asks for a serving of fish, do you scare him with a live snake on his plate? If your little girl asks for an egg, do you trick her with a spider? As bad as you are, you wouldn't think of such a thing—you're at least decent to your own children. And don't you think the Father who conceived you in love will give the Holy Spirit when you ask him?”


**Notes**

We the kingdom people.  This must be our primary identity.

Demonstrating the Kingdom - Derek Morphew

Theology - Our attempt to study God as revealed in the Bible.

We need to be consumed with theology, the understanding of God.

We have become experts at things we value
* politics
* epidemics
* justice
* climate change

We the kingdom people should study God like we study other topics.

Look through the lens of the kingdom.

We must wake up to the words and works of Jesus.

Identity in Christ must be our primary thing.


There is something attractive about having the right priorities and a proper identity.


**Discussion Questions**

* How has your focus drifted from the identity of being redeemed by God?
* How can we be reminded of our true identity in Christ?
* When are we most vulnerable to a false identity?

