## Acts Sermon Series


### Week 4 - Act 5 - Hypocrisy - June 7, 2020

<div class="sap-embed-player"><iframe src="https://subsplash.com/+pnr4/embed/mi/+9hn5jcr?video&audio&info&embeddable&shareable&logo_watermark" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen></iframe></div><style type="text/css">div.sap-embed-player{position:relative;width:100%;height:0;padding-top:56.25%;}div.sap-embed-player>iframe{position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;}</style>

**Scriptures**

All the believers were united in heart and mind. And they felt that what they owned was not their own, so they shared everything they had. The apostles testified powerfully to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and God's great blessing was upon them all. There were no needy people among them, because those who owned land or houses would sell them and bring the money to the apostles to give to those in need.

For instance, there was Joseph, the one the apostles nicknamed Barnabas (which means "Son of Encouragement”). He was from the tribe of Levi and came from the island of Cyprus. He sold a field he owned and brought the money to the apostles. 

But there was a certain man named Ananias who, with his wife, Sapphira, sold some property. He brought part of the money to the apostles, claiming it was the full amount. With his wife's consent, he kept the rest.

Then Peter said, "Ananias, why have you let Satan fill your heart? You lied to the Holy Spirit, and you kept some of the money for yourself. The property was yours to sell or not sell, as you wished. And after selling it, the money was also yours to give away. How could you do a thing like this? You weren't lying to us but to God!”

As soon as Ananias heard these words, he fell to the floor and died. Everyone who heard about it was terrified. Then some young men got up, wrapped him in a sheet, and took him out and buried him.

About three hours later his wife came in, not knowing what had happened. Peter asked her, "Was this the price you and your husband received for your land?”

"Yes,” she replied, "that was the price.”

And Peter said, "How could the two of you even think of conspiring to test the Spirit of the Lord like this? The young men who buried your husband are just outside the door, and they will carry you out, too.”

Instantly, she fell to the floor and died. When the young men came in and saw that she was dead, they carried her out and buried her beside her husband. Great fear gripped the entire church and everyone else who heard what had happened.

-- Act 4-5


**Notes:**

The church is a place where all people can find healing and a true connection with the living God.
But the church is also made up of people and we are deeply flawed.
At some point every believer will be greatly hurt by people in the church.
This is the result of the sin that we hold onto.

Every follower of Jesus wishes to be seen as completely holy, but our actions and thinking are often are at odds 
with the gospel. This hypocrisy causes us to act different that what we say we believe.  
It will poison our relationship with God and others.

We must have others in our lives that speak God's truth to us.  Without that influence we are doomed to
lie to ourselves and others about our true nature.  This ultimately is a attempt to lie to God and resist
his influence over us.

Hypocrisy can only be broken when we can hear truth from another person.  This is a vital part of following
Christ.  You will not survive with it.


**Discussion Questions:**

* What area of your life do you need to share with someone who cares about you?
* Who do you have in your life that speaks true in such a way that you are open to what they say?
* How has the influence of others made you grow in your relationship to God?

