## We the Kingdom People

### Week 5 - Empowerment - Todd Beilman  - Oct 4, 2020

**Scripture**

Acts 2:1-4 When the Feast of Pentecost came, they were all together in one
place. Without warning there was a sound like a strong wind, gale force—no one
could tell where it came from. It filled the whole building. Then, like a
wildfire, the Holy Spirit spread through their ranks, and they started speaking
in a number of different languages as the Spirit prompted them.

Acts 1:4 After his death, he presented himself alive to them in many different
settings over a period of forty days. In face-to-face meetings, he talked to
them about things concerning the kingdom of God. As they met and ate meals
together, he told them that they were on no account to leave Jerusalem but "must
wait for what the Father promised: the promise you heard from me. John baptized
in water; you will be baptized in the Holy Spirit. And soon.”

I John 3:24 As we keep his commands, we live deeply and surely in him, and he
lives in us. And this is how we experience his deep and abiding presence in us:
by the Spirit he gave us.

I Sa 10:5-6 "Next, you'll come to Gibeah of God, where there's a Philistine
garrison. As you approach the town, you'll run into a bunch of prophets coming
down from the shrine, playing harps and tambourines, flutes and drums. And
they'll be prophesying. Before you know it, the Spirit of God will come on you
and you'll be prophesying right along with them. And you'll be transformed.
You'll be a new person!

Acts 8:3-8 And Saul just went wild, devastating the church, entering house after
house after house, dragging men and women off to jail. Forced to leave home
base, the followers of Jesus all became missionaries. Wherever they were
scattered, they preached the Message about Jesus. Going down to a Samaritan
city, Philip proclaimed the Message of the Messiah. When the people heard what
he had to say and saw the miracles, the clear signs of God's action, they hung
on his every word. Many who could neither stand nor walk were healed that day.
The evil spirits protested loudly as they were sent on their way. And what joy
in the city!

9-11 Previous to Philip's arrival, a certain Simon had practiced magic in the
city, posing as a famous man and dazzling all the Samaritans with his wizardry.
He had them all, from little children to old men, eating out of his hand. They
all thought he had supernatural powers, and called him "the Great Wizard.” He
had been around a long time and everyone was more or less in awe of him.

12-13 But when Philip came to town announcing the news of God's kingdom and
proclaiming the name of Jesus Christ, they forgot Simon and were baptized,
becoming believers right and left! Even Simon himself believed and was baptized.
From that moment he was like Philip's shadow, so fascinated with all the
God-signs and miracles that he wouldn't leave Philip's side.

14-17 When the apostles in Jerusalem received the report that Samaria had
accepted God's Message, they sent Peter and John down to pray for them to
receive the Holy Spirit. Up to this point they had only been baptized in the
name of the Master Jesus; the Holy Spirit hadn't yet fallen on them. Then the
apostles laid their hands on them and they did receive the Holy Spirit.

18-19 When Simon saw that the apostles by merely laying on hands conferred the
Spirit, he pulled out his money, excited, and said, "Sell me your secret! Show
me how you did that! How much do you want? Name your price!”

20-23 Peter said, "To hell with your money! And you along with it. Why, that's
unthinkable—trying to buy God's gift! You'll never be part of what God is doing
by striking bargains and offering bribes. Change your ways—and now! Ask the
Master to forgive you for trying to use God to make money. I can see this is an
old habit with you; you reek with money-lust.”

24 "Oh!” said Simon, "pray for me! Pray to the Master that nothing like that
will ever happen to me!”

Acts 9:11-12 "Get up and go over to Straight Avenue. Ask at the house of Judas
for a man from Tarsus. His name is Saul. He's there praying. He has just had a
dream in which he saw a man named Ananias enter the house and lay hands on him
so he could see again.”

13-14 Ananias protested, "Master, you can't be serious. Everybody's talking
about this man and the terrible things he's been doing, his reign of terror
against your people in Jerusalem! And now he's shown up here with papers from
the Chief Priest that give him license to do the same to us.”

15-16 But the Master said, "Don't argue. Go! I have picked him as my personal
representative to non-Jews and kings and Jews. And now I'm about to show him
what he's in for—the hard suffering that goes with this job.”

17-19 So Ananias went and found the house, placed his hands on blind Saul, and
said, "Brother Saul, the Master sent me, the same Jesus you saw on your way
here. He sent me so you could see again and be filled with the Holy Spirit.” No
sooner were the words out of his mouth than something like scales fell from
Saul's eyes—he could see again! He got to his feet, was baptized, and sat down
with them to a hearty meal.

Luke 11:10-13 "Don't bargain with God. Be direct. Ask for what you need. This is
not a cat-and-mouse, hide-and-seek game we're in. If your little boy asks for a
serving of fish, do you scare him with a live snake on his plate? If your little
girl asks for an egg, do you trick her with a spider? As bad as you are, you
wouldn't think of such a thing—you're at least decent to your own children. And
don't you think the Father who conceived you in love will give the Holy Spirit
when you ask him?”


**Notes**

The rulership and authority of God must be primary in our lives.

This allegiance must be more important than our commitment to our government, 
company, community, and family.

All other commitments must be based on our desire to see God's leadership in the
lives of all others around us.

Spiritual power is the key to healing our broken world.   Human power will never
be  enough to bring redemption, healing, and justice.
Without the power of the Spirit there is no hope.

The Good News for humans is that God has a plan for redeeming humanity.  It
involves each follower being filled with power from his Spirit.

We need to be empowered by the Spirit for the work that God is calling us to do.
 No human power is adequate.

While there is an initial experience of empowering by the Spirit, there is
also an ongoing experience of empowerment.  There is no single model in
scripture for how this happens.

When God's presence empowers us there is an emotional and physical response. But
the symptoms may vary.

We need to be expecting the Spirit to empower us.  We need to experience more than
more knowledge.

To be empowered we should

* believe that God wants to fill us

* ask that the Spirit would come to us

* receive the Spirit and all that He brings


**Discussion Questions**

* When have you been empowered by the Spirit of God?

* Why are we sometimes afraid of God's power?

* Why does our trust in human power grieve the Spirit and prevent him from
moving?

