## Acts Sermon Series


### Week 5 - Philippians 2 - Unity - June 14, 2020

<div class="sap-embed-player"><iframe src="https://subsplash.com/+pnr4/embed/mi/+vm3r33r?video&audio&info&embeddable&shareable&logo_watermark" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen></iframe></div><style type="text/css">div.sap-embed-player{position:relative;width:100%;height:0;padding-top:56.25%;}div.sap-embed-player>iframe{position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;}</style>


**Scriptures:**

Is there any encouragement from belonging to Christ? Any comfort from his love?
Any fellowship together in the Spirit? Are your hearts tender and compassionate?
Then make me truly happy by agreeing wholeheartedly with each other, loving one
another, and working together with one mind and purpose.

Don't be selfish; don't try to impress others. Be humble, thinking of others as
better than yourselves. Don't look out only for your own interests, but take an
interest in others, too.

You must have the same attitude that Christ Jesus had. 

-- Php 2:1-10


During the forty days after his crucifixion, he appeared to the apostles from
time to time, and he proved to them in many ways that he was actually alive. And
he talked to them about the Kingdom of God.

Once when he was eating with them, he commanded them, "Do not leave Jerusalem
until the Father sends you the gift he promised, as I told you before. John
baptized with water, but in just a few days you will be baptized with the Holy
Spirit.”

He replied, "The Father alone has the authority to set those dates and times,
and they are not for you to know. But you will receive power when the Holy
Spirit comes upon you. And you will be my witnesses, telling people about me
everywhere—in Jerusalem, throughout Judea, in Samaria, and to the ends of the
earth.” 

-- Acts 1:6-8


All the believers were united in heart and mind. And they felt that what they
owned was not their own, so they shared everything they had. The apostles
testified powerfully to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and God's great
blessing was upon them all. There were no needy people among them, because those
who owned land or houses would sell them and bring the money to the apostles to
give to those in need. 

-- Act 4:32


Your love for one another will prove to the world that you are my disciples.

-- John 13:35


**Notes:**

The power of the Holy Spirit is what has always united the church. Following
Jesus causes us to learn how to love one another. We can only be united if we
are following Jesus, and we can only  follow Jesus if we are united.

We do not need to agree with each other to live in peace. God's love can help us
to care deeply about each other even when we  disagree.

Love is not optional. If we hate one another then we are not following Christ.
We must humble ourselves and serve one another.

Challenge: Remember when you first encountered the presence of God and saw the
church as a beautiful bride?  That is how Jesus sees the church.  Is that how
you see her?


**Discussion Questions:**

* What is it that binds us together and allows us to lay down differences?   

* How can we preserve unity and speak out about injustice?

* How is unity different than conformity?

