## In God We Trust

### Week 2 - Finding Refuge - Todd Beilman  - Nov 8, 2020

**Scripture**

Psalm 31 1-2 I run to you, God; I run for dear life.
Don't let me down!
Take me seriously this time!
Get down on my level and listen,
and please—no procrastination!
Your granite cave a hiding place,
your high cliff aerie a place of safety.

You're my cave to hide in,
my cliff to climb.
Be my safe leader,
be my true mountain guide.
Free me from hidden traps;
I want to hide in you.
I've put my life in your hands.
You won't drop me,
you'll never let me down.

I hate all this silly religion,
but you, God, I trust.
I'm leaping and singing in the circle of your love;
you saw my pain,
you disarmed my tormentors,
You didn't leave me in their clutches
but gave me room to breathe.
Be kind to me, God—
I'm in deep, deep trouble again.
I've cried my eyes out;
I feel hollow inside.
My life leaks away, groan by groan;
my years fade out in sighs.
My troubles have worn me out,
turned my bones to powder.
To my enemies I'm a monster;
I'm ridiculed by the neighbors.
My friends are horrified;
they cross the street to avoid me.
They want to blot me from memory,
forget me like a corpse in a grave,
discard me like a broken dish in the trash.
The street-talk gossip has me
"criminally insane”!
Behind locked doors they plot
how to ruin me for good.

Desperate, I throw myself on you:
you are my God!
Hour by hour I place my days in your hand,
safe from the hands out to get me.
Warm me, your servant, with a smile;
save me because you love me.
Don't embarrass me by not showing up;
I've given you plenty of notice.
Embarrass the wicked, stand them up,
leave them stupidly shaking their heads
as they drift down to hell.
Gag those loudmouthed liars
who heckle me, your follower,
with jeers and catcalls.

What a stack of blessing you have piled up
for those who worship you,
Ready and waiting for all who run to you
to escape an unkind world.
You hide them safely away
from the opposition.
As you slam the door on those oily, mocking faces,
you silence the poisonous gossip.
Blessed God!
His love is the wonder of the world.
Trapped by a siege, I panicked.
"Out of sight, out of mind,” I said.
But you heard me say it,
you heard and listened.

Love God, all you saints;
God takes care of all who stay close to him,
But he pays back in full
those arrogant enough to go it alone.

Be brave. Be strong. Don't give up.
Expect God to get here soon.


Psalm 37 - TLB 

Never envy the wicked!  Soon they fade away like grass and disappear.  Trust in the Lord instead. Be kind and good to others; then you will live safely here in the land and prosper, feeding in safety.

Be delighted with the Lord. Then he will give you all your heart's desires.  Commit everything you do to the Lord. Trust him to help you do it, and he will. Your innocence will be clear to everyone. He will vindicate you with the blazing light of justice shining down as from the noonday sun.

Rest in the Lord; wait patiently for him to act. Don't be envious of evil men who prosper.
Stop your anger! Turn off your wrath. Don't fret and worry—it only leads to harm. For the wicked shall be destroyed, but those who trust the Lord shall be given every blessing. Only a little while and the wicked shall disappear. You will look for them in vain. But all who humble themselves before the Lord shall be given every blessing and shall have wonderful peace.


Psalm 94 - MSG

God, put an end to evil;
avenging God, show your colors!
Judge of the earth, take your stand;
throw the book at the arrogant.
God, the wicked get away with murder—
how long will you let this go on?
They brag and boast
and crow about their crimes!
They walk all over your people, God,
exploit and abuse your precious people.
They take out anyone who gets in their way;
if they can't use them, they kill them.

They think, "God isn't looking,
But God became my hideout,
God was my high mountain retreat,
Then boomeranged their evil back on them:
for their evil ways he wiped them out,
our God cleaned them out for good.


Proverbs 28  - MSG

When the country is in chaos,
everybody has a plan to fix it—
But it takes a leader of real understanding
to straighten things out.
The wicked who oppress the poor
are like a hailstorm that beats down the harvest.

If you desert God's law, you're free to embrace depravity;
if you love God's law, you fight for it tooth and nail.
Justice makes no sense to the evilminded;
those who seek God know it inside and out.
It's better to be poor and direct
than rich and crooked.
Get as rich as you want
through cheating and extortion,
But eventually some friend of the poor
is going to give it all back to them.

God has no use for the prayers
of the people who won't listen to him.
Lead good people down a wrong path
and you'll come to a bad end;
do good and you'll be rewarded for it.
The rich think they know it all,
but the poor can see right through them.

When good people are promoted, everything is great,
but when the bad are in charge, watch out!
Lions roar and bears charge—
and the wicked lord it over the poor.
Among leaders who lack insight, abuse abounds,
but for one who hates corruption, the future is bright.
Playing favorites is always a bad thing;
you can do great harm in seemingly harmless ways.

A miser in a hurry to get rich
doesn't know that he'll end up broke.
A grasping person stirs up trouble,
but trust in God brings a sense of well-being.
If you think you know it all, you're a fool for sure;
real survivors learn wisdom from others.

Be generous to the poor—you'll never go hungry;
shut your eyes to their needs, and run a gauntlet of curses.
When corruption takes over, good people go underground,
but when the crooks are thrown out, it's safe to come out.


**Notes**

Emotionally Healthy Relationships

Lack of emotional maturity will limit your spiritual maturity.

Need to invite Christ into your feelings.

* Explore the iceberg
* Listen and be in the moment
* Own your feelings

Where is your refuge in times of turmoil?

* Relationships
* Money
* Politics
* Addiction
* Success
* Control

Assess where you seek comfort and security.
Be salt and light. Let God guide you into the storm.


Pray - God, You alone are my Refuge.



**Discussion Questions**

* Where do you put your hope?
* How are you acting out your trust in God?
* What is the Spirit inviting you to?

