## Acts Sermon Series


### Week 5 - Acts 3-11 - Persecution - June 21, 2020

**Notes:**

When we read the book of Acts it appears that church is running smoothly, but it is easy to
overlook the turmoil and difficulties of the early church.

Acts describes two different "temples" the followers of Jesus meeting together with each
other and the traditional Jewish temple gatherings.

Problems arose with certain people being neglected and not getting ministry.  Deacons were
appointed to take care of these people and a new style of ministry was created to solve
a pressing problem.  Stephen was one of these key leaders.

Stephen was arrested by the Jewish leaders and questioned about following Jesus.  In Acts 7
he gives a long history ending with this challenge.

"You stubborn people! You are heathen at heart and deaf to the truth. Must you forever resist the Holy Spirit? That's what your ancestors did, and so do you! Name one prophet your ancestors didn't persecute! They even killed the ones who predicted the coming of the Righteous One—the Messiah whom you betrayed and murdered. You deliberately disobeyed God's law, even though you received it from the hands of angels.”  -- Acts 7:51

"The Jewish leaders were infuriated by Stephen's accusation, and they shook their fists at him in rage.  Then they put their hands over their ears and began shouting. They rushed at him and dragged him out of the city and began to stone him." -- Acts 7

Tragedy is often used by God to accomplish the mission. The church spread from Jerusalem to a global movement as disciples scatter.

"Meanwhile, the believers who had been scattered during the persecution after Stephen's death traveled as far as Phoenicia, Cyprus, and Antioch of Syria. They preached the word of God, but only to Jews. However, some of the believers who went to Antioch from Cyprus and Cyrene began preaching to the Gentiles about the Lord Jesus. The power of the Lord was with them, and a large number of these Gentiles believed and turned to the Lord."
-- Acts 11:19 

Sometimes comfort can block the advance of the kingdom.

Beilman's Personal Story

* Leaving a time of comfortable service and effective ministry to move into the unknown.  
* We were called to Greeley.
* God pushed us into a new phase of ministry effectiveness.

Perhaps God is moving all of us into a new phase.


**Discussion Questions:**

* How is God moving you from comfort into calling?

* What is God inviting you into?

* How are you responding in your discomfort?

