## All Hail King Jesus

### Week 3 - Wonderful Counselor - Todd Beilman  - Dec 13, 2020

**Scripture**

Isaiah 9 - The Message

The people who walked in darkness
    have seen a great light.
For those who lived in a land of deep shadows—
    light! sunbursts of light!

For a child has been born—for us!
    the gift of a son—for us!

He'll take over
    the running of the world.
His names will be: Amazing Counselor,
    Strong God,
Eternal Father,
    Prince of Wholeness.
His ruling authority will grow,
    and there'll be no limits to the wholeness he brings.
He'll rule from the historic David throne
    over that promised kingdom.
He'll put that kingdom on a firm footing
    and keep it going
With fair dealing and right living,
    beginning now and lasting always.
The zeal of God-of-the-Angel-Armies
    will do all this.
    
    
Isaiah 9 - NIV

For to us a child is born,
    to us a son is given,
    and the government will be on his shoulders.

And he will be called
    Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God,
    Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace.
 
Of the greatness of his government and peace
    there will be no end.
    

Heb 4:15 - Message

Now that we know what we have—Jesus, this great High Priest with ready access to God—let's not let it slip through our fingers. We don't have a priest who is out of touch with our reality. He's been through weakness and testing, experienced it all—all but the sin. So let's walk right up to him and get what he is so ready to give. Take the mercy, accept the help.


**Notes**

What is the meaning of Wonderful Counselor?

* wonderful - incomprehensible, beyond understanding, inspiring awe
* counselor - he knows us like no other including ourselves


Jesus did miracles to solve problems not just doing magic tricks.

We admit our weakness and have faith that God can meet your needs.

Jesus came for those who suffer.

Jesus has both understanding and wisdom to know what is going on and the power to change it.



**Discussion Questions**

* How is Jesus your wonderful counselor?
* How to you receive the counsel?
* Can we trust in the Spirit's advice?

