## We the Kingdom People

### Week 8 - Doing What Jesus Did - Todd Beilman - Oct 25, 2020


**Scripture**

Jn 5:5-20

John 5 4-6 One man had been an invalid there for thirty-eight years. When Jesus saw him stretched out by the pool and knew how long he had been there, he said, "Do you want to get well?”

7 The sick man said, "Sir, when the water is stirred, I don't have anybody to put me in the pool. By the time I get there, somebody else is already in.”

8-9 Jesus said, "Get up, take your bedroll, start walking.” The man was healed on the spot. He picked up his bedroll and walked off.

9-10 That day happened to be the Sabbath. The Jews stopped the healed man and said, "It's the Sabbath. You can't carry your bedroll around. It's against the rules.”

11 But he told them, "The man who made me well told me to. He said, 'Take your bedroll and start walking.'”

12-13 They asked, "Who gave you the order to take it up and start walking?” But the healed man didn't know, for Jesus had slipped away into the crowd.

14 A little later Jesus found him in the Temple and said, "You look wonderful! You're well! Don't return to a sinning life or something worse might happen.”

15-16 The man went back and told the Jews that it was Jesus who had made him well. That is why the Jews were out to get Jesus—because he did this kind of thing on the Sabbath.

17 But Jesus defended himself. "My Father is working straight through, even on the Sabbath. So am I.”

18 That really set them off. The Jews were now not only out to expose him; they were out to kill him. Not only was he breaking the Sabbath, but he was calling God his own Father, putting himself on a level with God.
What the Father Does, the Son Does

19-20 So Jesus explained himself at length. "I'm telling you this straight. The Son can't independently do a thing, only what he sees the Father doing. What the Father does, the Son does. The Father loves the Son and includes him in everything he is doing.



**Notes**

We the kingdom people should be Doing the Stuff.

Put what you know into action.

Have you put on kingdom glasses to see the world right?  Stop the pain.

We read in the gospels about what Jesus did.  But we often don't have an expectation that we will take action.

Somewhere there will be a people that commit themselves to doing the acts of Jesus.

Why not us? Why not here?  Why not now?

Inward journey

* Repentance
* Inner healing
* Healing
* Deliverance

Outward journey

* What is the Father doing?  My Father is always at work.
* How do we see correctly?  God has a plan.
* How can you join God's work?  God is inviting.

Give us kingdom eyes, ears, mouths, hands, feet


**Discussion Questions**

* What does repentance mean to you?
* When have you felt prompted by the Spirit recently to act?
* When have you noticed that your viewpoint is not a kingdom viewpoint?
