## All Hail King Jesus

### Week 2 - Prince of Peace - Todd Beilman  - Dec 6, 2020

**Scripture**

Isaiah 6 - The Message

The people who walked in darkness
    have seen a great light.
For those who lived in a land of deep shadows—
    light! sunbursts of light!

You repopulated the nation,
    you expanded its joy.
Oh, they're so glad in your presence!
    Festival joy!

The joy of a great celebration,
    sharing rich gifts and warm greetings.
The abuse of oppressors and cruelty of tyrants—
    all their whips and cudgels and curses—
Is gone, done away with, a deliverance
    as surprising and sudden as Gideon's old victory over Midian.
The boots of all those invading troops,
    along with their shirts soaked with innocent blood,
Will be piled in a heap and burned,
    a fire that will burn for days!

For a child has been born—for us!
    the gift of a son—for us!

He'll take over
    the running of the world.
His names will be: Amazing Counselor,
    Strong God,
Eternal Father,
    Prince of Wholeness.
His ruling authority will grow,
    and there'll be no limits to the wholeness he brings.
He'll rule from the historic David throne
    over that promised kingdom.
He'll put that kingdom on a firm footing
    and keep it going
With fair dealing and right living,
    beginning now and lasting always.
The zeal of God-of-the-Angel-Armies
    will do all this.
    
Isaiah 9 - NIV

For to us a child is born,
    to us a son is given,
    and the government will be on his shoulders.

And he will be called
    Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God,
    Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace.
 
Of the greatness of his government and peace
    there will be no end.
    
Is 53 - 

Surely he took up our pain
    and bore our suffering,
yet we considered him punished by God,
    stricken by him, and afflicted.
 
But he was pierced for our transgressions,
    he was crushed for our iniquities;
the punishment that brought us peace was on him,
    and by his wounds we are healed.

We all, like sheep, have gone astray,
    each of us has turned to our own way;
and the Lord has laid on him
    the iniquity of us all.
    
    
    
**Notes**

All hail king Jesus

Isaiah spoke about the birth of Jesus 800 years earlier.

It was a time of political and civic and economic turmoil.

His message was once of hope speaking into the darkness.

Where is the peace?

Peace with God leads to Peace with the World.

There are deeper issues at play

The horizontal is broken because the vertical is.

We want to have a life of conflict with God and have peace with our circumstances.

Peace with God must come first otherwise there can be no real peace with my surroundings.

Christmas always leads to Easter.



**Discussion Questions**

* How have you experienced the Prince of Peace recently?
* What areas are you still needing God's Peace?
* How does the suffering of Christ bring us peace?

