## In God We Trust

### Week 3 - Trust in Money - Todd Beilman  - Nov 15, 2020

**Scripture**

Lk 12

Parable of the Rich Fool
Then someone called from the crowd, "Teacher, please tell my brother to divide our father's estate with me.”

Jesus replied, "Friend, who made me a judge over you to decide such things as that?” Then he said, "Beware! Guard against every kind of greed. Life is not measured by how much you own.”

Then he told them a story: "A rich man had a fertile farm that produced fine crops. He said to himself, 'What should I do? I don't have room for all my crops.' Then he said, 'I know! I'll tear down my barns and build bigger ones. Then I'll have room enough to store all my wheat and other goods. And I'll sit back and say to myself, "My friend, you have enough stored away for years to come. Now take it easy! Eat, drink, and be merry!”'

"But God said to him, 'You fool! You will die this very night. Then who will get everything you worked for?'

"Yes, a person is a fool to store up earthly wealth but not have a rich relationship with God.”
Teaching about Money and Possessions
Then, turning to his disciples, Jesus said, "That is why I tell you not to worry about everyday life—whether you have enough food to eat or enough clothes to wear. For life is more than food, and your body more than clothing. Look at the ravens. They don't plant or harvest or store food in barns, for God feeds them. And you are far more valuable to him than any birds! Can all your worries add a single moment to your life? And if worry can't accomplish a little thing like that, what's the use of worrying over bigger things?

"Look at the lilies and how they grow. They don't work or make their clothing, yet Solomon in all his glory was not dressed as beautifully as they are. And if God cares so wonderfully for flowers that are here today and thrown into the fire tomorrow, he will certainly care for you. Why do you have so little faith?

"And don't be concerned about what to eat and what to drink. Don't worry about such things. These things dominate the thoughts of unbelievers all over the world, but your Father already knows your needs. Seek the Kingdom of God above all else, and he will give you everything you need.

"So don't be afraid, little flock. For it gives your Father great happiness to give you the Kingdom.

"Sell your possessions and give to those in need. This will store up treasure for you in heaven! And the purses of heaven never get old or develop holes. Your treasure will be safe; no thief can steal it and no moth can destroy it. Wherever your treasure is, there the desires of your heart will also be.


**Notes**

Giving is like a ladder

* Step 1 - Consumer - Receive but do not give much
* Step 2 - Tipper - Give in exchange for services received
* Step 3 - Consistent giver - Regular investment
* Step 4 - Tither - Invest 10% of income
* Step 5 - Generous giver - Respond to situations that arise


**Discussion Questions**

* Which step on the trust ladder are you on?
* What is God's invitation for you?
* What fears are blocking your progress?

