## Reopening Christianity

<img src="/static/images/vineyard/Reopening.jpg" width="400">


### Week 2 - Consumer or Contributor - Jenny Beilman  - March 14, 2021

**Scripture**

Jn 10:1-18

10 1-5 "Let me set this before you as plainly as I can. If a person climbs over
or through the fence of a sheep pen instead of going through the gate, you know
he's up to no good—a sheep rustler! The shepherd walks right up to the gate. The
gatekeeper opens the gate to him and the sheep recognize his voice. He calls his
own sheep by name and leads them out. When he gets them all out, he leads them
and they follow because they are familiar with his voice. They won't follow a
stranger's voice but will scatter because they aren't used to the sound of it.”

6-10 Jesus told this simple story, but they had no idea what he was talking
about. So he tried again. "I'll be explicit, then. I am the Gate for the sheep.
All those others are up to no good—sheep rustlers, every one of them. But the
sheep didn't listen to them. I am the Gate. Anyone who goes through me will be
cared for—will freely go in and out, and find pasture. A thief is only there to
steal and kill and destroy. I came so they can have real and eternal life, more
and better life than they ever dreamed of.

11-13 "I am the Good Shepherd. The Good Shepherd puts the sheep before himself,
sacrifices himself if necessary. A hired man is not a real shepherd. The sheep
mean nothing to him. He sees a wolf come and runs for it, leaving the sheep to
be ravaged and scattered by the wolf. He's only in it for the money. The sheep
don't matter to him.

14-18 "I am the Good Shepherd. I know my own sheep and my own sheep know me. In
the same way, the Father knows me and I know the Father. I put the sheep before
myself, sacrificing myself if necessary.


Ep 4:1-6

1-3 In light of all this, here's what I want you to do. While I'm locked up
here, a prisoner for the Master, I want you to get out there and walk—better
yet, run!—on the road God called you to travel. I don't want any of you sitting
around on your hands. I don't want anyone strolling off, down some path that
goes nowhere. And mark that you do this with humility and discipline—not in fits
and starts, but steadily, pouring yourselves out for each other in acts of love,
alert at noticing differences and quick at mending fences.

4-6 You were all called to travel on the same road and in the same direction, so
stay together, both outwardly and inwardly. You have one Master, one faith, one
baptism, one God and Father of all, who rules over all, works through all, and
is present in all. Everything you are and think and do is permeated with
Oneness.


Jn 4:10-15

10 Jesus answered, "If you knew the generosity of God and who I am, you would be
asking me for a drink, and I would give you fresh, living water.”

11-12 The woman said, "Sir, you don't even have a bucket to draw with, and this
well is deep. So how are you going to get this 'living water'? Are you a better
man than our ancestor Jacob, who dug this well and drank from it, he and his
sons and livestock, and passed it down to us?”

13-14 Jesus said, "Everyone who drinks this water will get thirsty again and
again. Anyone who drinks the water I give will never thirst—not ever. The water
I give will be an artesian spring within, gushing fountains of endless life.”

15 The woman said, "Sir, give me this water so I won't ever get thirsty, won't
ever have to come back to this well again!”



**Notes**

One Full Year

- Fully online
- Penas as pastors
- Rodney Meyers' death

Our lives are often no different from those outside the church

NONES are the fastest growing group

Am I a consumer or a contributor?

20% do the work

We need others to step forward

Our goal is to change the redemptive history of our city

We become the fullest expression of Jesus when each of us does our part


Each has been given a gift


We are to grow and mature

- show us how
- we learn how
- we teach others

Many of us stay infants

Search me God, show me where I am on the journey

We can have a big impact as we unite with other believers

The church needs you; you need the church

The mission of the church

* Inside - equipping believers
* Outside - serving the community

Empathy and Compassion

Jesus am fed when I feed others

True fulfillment requires serving others


**Discussion Questions**

* Are you a consumer or contributor?
* Are you ready to step up and allow God to use you?
* What is the next step that God is inviting you to?

