## Holiness

### Week 4 - Vision for Life - Todd Beilman  - Jan 24, 2021

**Scripture**

Acts 1:8 - NLT

During the forty days after his crucifixion, he appeared to the apostles from
time to time, and he proved to them in many ways that he was actually alive. And
he talked to them about the Kingdom of God.

Once when he was eating with them, he commanded them, "Do not leave Jerusalem
until the Father sends you the gift he promised, as I told you before.  John
baptized with water, but in just a few days you will be baptized with the Holy
Spirit.”

 So when the apostles were with Jesus, they kept asking him, "Lord, has the time
 come for you to free Israel and restore our kingdom?”

He replied, "The Father alone has the authority to set those dates and times,
and they are not for you to know.  But  you will receive power when the Holy
Spirit comes upon you. And you  will be my witnesses, telling people about me
everywhere—in Jerusalem,  throughout Judea, in Samaria, and to the ends of the
earth.”


Mat 22:1 - NLT

Jesus also told them other parables. He said, "The Kingdom of Heaven can be
illustrated by the story of a king who prepared a great wedding feast for his
son.When the banquet was ready, he sent his servants to notify those who were
invited. But they all refused to come!

"So  he sent other servants to tell them, 'The feast has been prepared. The 
"bulls and fattened cattle have been killed, and everything is ready.  Come to
"the banquet!'  But the guests he had invited ignored them and went their own
"way, one to his farm, another to his business.  Others seized his messengers
"and insulted them and killed them.

"The king was furious, and he sent out his army to destroy the murderers and
"burn their town.  And he said to his servants, 'The wedding feast is ready, and
"the guests I invited aren't worthy of the honor.  Now go out to the street
"corners and invite everyone you see.'  So the servants brought in everyone they
"could find, good and bad alike, and the banquet hall was filled with guests.

"But when the king came in to meet the guests, he noticed a man who wasn't
"wearing the proper clothes for a wedding.  'Friend,' he asked, 'how is it that
"you are here without wedding clothes?' But the man had no reply.  Then  the
"king said to his aides, 'Bind his hands and feet and throw him into  the outer
"darkness, where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.'

"For many are called, but few are chosen.”


Mat 28:19 - NLT

Then the eleven disciples left for Galilee, going to the mountain where Jesus
had told them to go. When they saw him, they worshiped him—but some of them
doubted!

Jesus came and told his disciples, "I have been given all authority in heaven
and on earth.  Therefore, go and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing
them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit.  Teach  these
new disciples to obey all the commands I have given you. And be  sure of this: I
am with you always, even to the end of the age.”



**Notes**

Look back to look forward

What should we Continue, Increase, Reduce, Stop?

Our motivation could be driven by culture or the kingdom of God

We get distracted from doing God's will

What is the invitation of God

- Embrace the Kingdom - Engage the World
- End Hunger, Seek Justice, Strengthen Families
- Do it again

We can be pulled off course

Focus on the essentials

- Evangelism - sharing the good news
- Discipleship - teaching people to follow Jesus
- Diversity - love others differ than you

Let's challenge one another to finish the race



**Discussion Questions**

* How are you sharing the good news now?
* How are you growing in discipleship?
* Why is loving those who are not like us difficult?

