## Holiness

### Week 1 - Being Holy - Todd Beilman  - Jan 3, 2021

**Scripture**

1 Co 6:12

You say, "I am allowed to do anything”—but not everything is good for you. And even though "I am allowed to do anything,” I must not become a slave to anything. You say, "Food was made for the stomach, and the stomach for food.” (This is true, though someday God will do away with both of them.) But you can't say that our bodies were made for sexual immorality. They were made for the Lord, and the Lord cares about our bodies. And God will raise us from the dead by his power, just as he raised our Lord from the dead.

Don't you realize that your bodies are actually parts of Christ? Should a man take his body, which is part of Christ, and join it to a prostitute? Never! And don't you realize that if a man joins himself to a prostitute, he becomes one body with her? For the Scriptures say, "The two are united into one.” But the person who is joined to the Lord is one spirit with him.


1 Pe 1:13

So roll up your sleeves, put your mind in gear, be totally ready to receive the gift that's coming when Jesus arrives. Don't lazily slip back into those old grooves of evil, doing just what you feel like doing. You didn't know any better then; you do now. As obedient children, let yourselves be pulled into a way of life shaped by God's life, a life energetic and blazing with holiness. God said, "I am holy; you be holy.”

You call out to God for help and he helps—he's a good Father that way. But don't forget, he's also a responsible Father, and won't let you get by with sloppy living.


1 Th 4:1

One final word, friends. We ask you—urge is more like it—that you keep on doing what we told you to do to please God, not in a dogged religious plod, but in a living, spirited dance. You know the guidelines we laid out for you from the Master Jesus. God wants you to live a pure life.

Keep yourselves from sexual promiscuity.
Learn to appreciate and give dignity to your body, not abusing it, as is so common among those who know nothing of God.

Don't run roughshod over the concerns of your brothers and sisters. Their concerns are God's concerns, and he will take care of them. We've warned you about this before. God hasn't invited us into a disorderly, unkempt life but into something holy and beautiful—as beautiful on the inside as the outside.

If you disregard this advice, you're not offending your neighbors; you're rejecting God, who is making you a gift of his Holy Spirit.


  
**Notes**

Holy means set apart for God.

There is often a disconnect between our desire to follow Jesus and the reality of daily life.

If we want to be holy we must be honest with ourselves.

Self-righteousness is not holiness.

Challenge yourself to be different.  You are intended to be set apart for the purpose and plan of God.

No longer defined by your old sin.

Our resolution could be to reflect more of God's holiness.

Eyes upon him, then eyes upon us.

Count yourself dead to sin.

You don't give up when you mess up.  Confess and turn away.

Our view of the future must start with our view of the holiness of God.



**Discussion Questions**

* What areas to you struggle to be honest with yourself?
* How does God's word change your life?
* In what area would you like to see to breakthrough this year?


