# Books & Blogs

I am interested in a wide variety of subjects.  This is reflected in my writing
activities.  Rather than mix everything together I have created a collection
of publishing venues.  Hopefully this will connect more with each of the
different groups of readers that follow my writing.

Here are the books and blogs that I am currently writing ...

## Books

**A Seaman's Journey** - The adventure stories from my life.  This is an 
autobiography of people, places, and experiences that have shaped who I am
today.

**A Seaman's Quest** - The philosophy of life that has been developed through
the decades.  I believe that life can be divided neatly into four stages that
each have their own joy, sorrows, victories, and losses. This is the basis of
the four quests that we must fulfill to live a complete life.

**A Seaman's Poems** - Random observations about the beauty and irony of life.
Writing poetry allows the freedom to comment without the need to belabor.  These
poems release me from the tendency to be logical.


## Blogs

**Meditations** - This blog has 365 daily postings to act as a resource for 
prayer and meditation.  Each day has a short scripture excerpt and a brief
prayer.

**Seaman's Log** - This venue is used to give you a Writer's Sampler Platter.
Sometimes, an appetizer is all you need.  This venue is like the movie trailers.
It briefly highlights article on all of the venues with links for further 
reading.  Each week there is a weekly summary of the highlights, suitable for 
posting on Facebook or Twitter.


...

**Read More**

* [Books and Blogs](https://seamansguide.com/book/)
* [My Life as a Writer](https://seamansguide.com/book/journey/Writer.md)

