# Daily Meditations

I've been wanting to develop more consistent personal practices for how I spend
time alone with God. These times have always been a key part of my life, but I
would like to be more effective. I have been desiring to immerse myself in the
bible while enjoying the presence of God. This is different than Bible study,
which is also important.

At the beginning of this year I began a new practice that I am really enjoying.
For years, I have been collecting favorite bible verses that resonate with me.
Many of these passages I have committed to memory but I rarely just ponder them
in God's presence. This seems an obvious practice, yet one I have often
neglected in favor of other activities that feel more productive.

Pondering a small passage of scripture inevitably leads to prayer. I often see
the gap between the truth of the passage and the reality that I am currently
living. This naturally leads me toward repentance and a fresh willingness to let
God have his way within me. After all he is the King.

Each day, I search for the scripture that will be the focal point for my time
with God. I create a web page for the day that contains the scripture and a
prayer, matching God's invitation to me. This has been a wonderful practice for
me so far and I intend to do this throughout 2022.

At the end of this year I will have a 365 day devotional guide. If you wish to
use this in any way then you can get access to the content as I create it at
Spiritual Things.
                

...

**Read full article**

* [Spiritual Things](https://spiritual-things.org)

