# Daily Meditation - January 5

## Scripture

No one can serve two masters. For you will hate one and love the other; you will be devoted to one
and despise the other. You cannot serve both God and money.

That is why I tell you not to worry about everyday life-whether you have enough food and drink, or
enough clothes to wear. Isn't life more than food, and your body more than clothing? Look at the
birds. They don't plant or harvest or store food in barns, for your heavenly Father feeds them. And
aren't you far more valuable to him than they are? Can all your worries add a single moment to your
life?

I was never in need, for I have learned how to be content with whatever I have. I know how to live
on almost nothing or with everything. I have learned the secret of living in every situation,
whether it is with a full stomach or empty, with plenty or little. For I can do everything through
Christ, who gives me strength.

Mat 6:35, Php 4:11


## Prayer

I confess that I so easily believe I have earned everything in my life by my own efforts. I am often
blinded to how you provide for my needs. As a result I pursue my own agenda and goals rather than
seeking your will in my life. I repent of the illusion of control and seek your will. I confess
that pursuing life without you is futile and will end in my ruin. I know that seeking your will
shall result in your provision and blessing in my life. You will supply everything that I need
along the way and I will live out the destiny to which you have called me.


