# Daily Meditation - January 17

## Scripture

This is the kind of fasting I want:

Free those who are wrongly imprisoned; lighten the burden of those who work for
you. Let the oppressed go free, and remove the chains that bind people. Share
your food with the hungry, and give shelter to the homeless. Give clothes to
those who need them, and do not hide from relatives who need your help.

Feed the hungry, and help those in trouble. Then your light will shine out from
the darkness, and the darkness around you will be as bright as noon. The Lord
will guide you continually, giving you water when you are dry and restoring your
strength. You will be like a well-watered garden, like an ever-flowing spring.

Some of you will rebuild the deserted ruins of your cities. Then you will be
known as a rebuilder of walls and a restorer of homes.

"Then your salvation will come like the dawn, and your wounds will quickly heal.
Your godliness will lead you forward, and the glory of the Lord will protect you
from behind. Then when you call, the Lord will answer. 'Yes, I am here,' he will
quickly reply. "Remove the heavy yoke of oppression. Stop pointing your finger
and spreading vicious rumors!

 Is 58:6


## Prayer

It is easy for me to sacrifice things that do not have much value to me. 
But it is tragic when I overlook what you are most concerned with.  Your heart
beats for the brokenness of humans.  You seek to free captives, heal the sick, 
and bring justice to the oppressed.

Forgive me for neglecting these weighty matters in order to focus on religious
controversies and making myself comfortable.  Reveal to me the areas in my 
life that need attention and help me to love better.

