# Daily Meditation - January 20

## Scripture

And why worry about your clothing? Look at the lilies of the field and how they
grow. They don't work or make their clothing, yet Solomon in all his glory was
not dressed as beautifully as they are. And if God cares so wonderfully for
wildflowers that are here today and thrown into the fire tomorrow, he will
certainly care for you. Why do you have so little faith?

So don't worry about these things, saying, "What will we eat? What will we
drink? What will we wear?" These things dominate the thoughts of unbelievers,
but your heavenly Father already knows all your needs. Seek the Kingdom of God
above all else, and live righteously, and he will give you everything you need.

Not that I was ever in need, for I have learned how to be content with whatever
I have. I know how to live on almost nothing or with everything.

I have learned the secret of living in every situation, whether it is with a
full stomach or empty, with plenty or little. For I can do everything through
Christ, who gives me strength.

Matt 6:28, Php 4:11


## Prayer

I do so often worry about the details of my life. Help me learn a contentment
that comes from completely trusting you.  I know that you are good and that
you love me.  Forgive me for not fully trusting that you will take care of all
of the details in my life.

Let me be completely satisfied with what you have provided.  Show me when I am 
pursuing a path outside of your will.  Bring me back to the basics of simple 
trust. Only then can I experience the blessings of your kingdom.

