# Daily Meditation - April 16

## Scripture

Early on Sunday morning, while it was still dark, Mary Magdalene came to
the tomb and found that the stone had been rolled away from the entrance. 

Mary was standing outside the tomb crying, and as she wept, she stooped and
looked in.  She  saw two white-robed angels, one sitting at the head and the
other at  the foot of the place where the body of Jesus had been lying. 

"Dear woman, why are you crying?” the angels asked her. "Because they have
taken away my Lord,” she replied, "and I don't know where they have put him.”

She turned to leave and saw someone standing there. It was Jesus, but she
didn't recognize him.  "Dear woman, why are you crying?” Jesus asked her. "Who
are you looking for?” She  thought he was the gardener. "Sir,” she said, "if you
have taken him  away, tell me where you have put him, and I will go and get
him.”

"Mary!” Jesus said. She turned to him and cried out, "Rabboni!” (which is
Hebrew for "Teacher”). "Don't cling to me,” Jesus said, "for  I haven't yet
ascended to the Father. But go find my brothers and tell  them, 'I am ascending
to my Father and your Father, to my God and your  God.'”  

Mary Magdalene found
the disciples and told them, "I have seen the Lord!” Then she gave them his
message.


John 20:1


## Prayer

Some events can only be understood in retrospect. Some things are too confounding
to wrap our brains around.  The death and resurrection of Jesus is exactly
this type of situation.  Even though you told the disciples repeatedly what 
would happen, they could not comprehend it until much later.

I believe that this truth is also at play in my life.  There are many things
that you have spoken to me about many times.  But it is only after events
play out that I realize that you knew what would happen.  This increased my
ability to trust you for a future that I can never understand or predict.

