# Web Apps Course Announcement

ai/WebApps.md

This is an AI article about building WebApps


## Prompt

Announce a new online course from Shrinking World to teach Web App Development.  Find the course at
shrinking-world.org.

The course uses Python, Django, and Postgres with Digital Ocean for hosting the finished app.  Learn
all the steps to build your own application.

add a super early bird special coupon for 90% off for the first 10 students.

---

## Announcement

Shrinking World's online course on web app development using Python, Django, and Postgres is
designed to take you from a beginner to a pro in approximately 100 hours of effort. We understand
that starting out in web development can be intimidating, but we're committed to providing you with
a structured and supportive learning experience that will give you the skills and confidence you
need to succeed.

Our course is carefully curated to cover all the essential concepts and techniques you'll need to
build a complete web application using Python and Django, from setting up your development
environment to deploying your finished app to the web. With 14 hands-on projects, you'll gain
practical experience that will help you master each concept and put it into practice.

By the end of the course, you'll have a solid understanding of web app development using Python,
Django, and Postgres, and be equipped with the tools and knowledge you need to build your own web
applications or pursue a career in web development. Whether you're looking to switch careers or
level up your skills, this course is designed to help you achieve your goals and get the job you've
been wishing for.

To learn more and enroll in the course, please visit our website at shrinking-world.org.

---

## Announcement with 90% off

Attention all aspiring web developers! We are thrilled to announce the launch of our new online
course on Web App Development using Python, Django, and Postgres, brought to you by Shrinking
World.

This course is designed to take you from a beginner to a pro in approximately 100 hours of effort.
With 14 hands-on projects, you'll gain practical experience that will help you master each concept
and put it into practice.

And here's some exciting news: For the first 10 students who enroll in the course, we're offering a
Super Early Bird Special coupon for 90% off! Don't miss out on this amazing opportunity to take
your web development skills to the next level at an unbeatable price.

To learn more and enroll in the course, visit our website at shrinking-world.org. Whether you're
looking to switch careers or level up your skills, this course is designed to help you achieve your
goals and get the job you've been wishing for.

---

Attention all aspiring web developers! We're excited to announce the launch of our new online course
on web app development using Python, Django, and Postgres. With approximately 100 hours of effort,
this course is designed to take you from a beginner to a pro in no time.

And here's some great news for the first 10 students who enroll: we're offering a super early bird
special coupon for 90% off the course fee! This is a limited-time offer, so act fast to secure your
spot and take advantage of this amazing discount.

In this course, you'll learn all the essential concepts and techniques you need to build a complete
web application using Python, Django, and Postgres. Our expert instructors will guide you through
every step of the development process, from setting up your development environment to deploying
your finished app to the web.

With 14 hands-on projects, you'll gain practical experience that will help you master each concept
and put it into practice. By the end of the course, you'll have the skills and confidence you need
to build your own web applications or pursue a career in web development.

To learn more and enroll in the course, please visit our website at shrinking-world.org. Remember,
this super early bird special offer is limited to the first 10 students who enroll, so don't
delay!
