# Those other people

Not everyone is like us. We often feel that those that are not like us do not really deserve love,
but the truth is that none of us really deserve God's love. We are all in need of undeserved
love.

We all have prejudices but cannot see them.  We each hold unquestioned opinions about the worth of
others. We believe that some people are worthy and others are not. But these attitudes block God's
love in our lives and make us unable to reach out to others.

These prejudices are bone-deep and carefully guarded. We hold them to be truths that are more sacred
than the bible.

Prejudice gives us the excuse we are looking for to not love. It allows us to feel justified in not
caring. Those other people are not worthy of God's love because they are part of a despised group.
These attitudes are easy to see in others but almost impossible to see in ourselves.

I know that I need to love my neighbor. But who is my neighbor?  How far does this go? I want to
create a grouping that lets me exclude certain groups of people. And I already have strong opinions
justifying why those people do not qualify.

Any small differences can be used as a reason to not love others. While it is hard to love others
that are like us, it is almost impossible to love those that are not like us.  In fact, it is
impossible unless God is changing our hearts.

The same issue applies to every type of difference: Race, Religion, Poverty, Wealth, Hard-
working/Lazy, Underweight/Overweight, Aggressive/Shy, Sports Teams, Greeley/Ft Collins, Education,
Status, Addiction, and Politics.  Any excuse is good enough if we don't want to love in the first
place.

When we feel ourselves reacting in this way the only reasonable response is repentance. We must
confront our prejudice rather than justify it.  It is a sin that is blocking the purpose of God in
our lives and keeping us from having any influence on others.


 ...
Read More - https://seamansguide.com/quest/WhoDoYouLove.md
