# MarkSeaman.org

## Author

Mark loves the process of writing. He lives in a world of ideas and likes to invite others to share them. He views writing as a healthy way to grow in understanding. His writing is focused on his stories from his personal life and thing he has learned.

He is also writes about software engineering and technology. His first book is about the art of software engineering. He is currently writing a textbook "Building Web Apps” which will be published in August of 2022.

He is currently writing daily for several blogs and working on completing four new books.

## Teacher

Mark is passionate about learning and applying new skills. This naturally leads to a desire to pass on knowledge to others.

In a wide variety of roles he has sought to train others in software engineering practices. Skills he has acquired from many years of engineering in small and large businesses have been used to train hundreds of college students in software development.

Whenever he interacts with others, he is eager to teach and train.

## Programmer

Mark has spent his entire adult life programming. He has well written over 1,000,000 lines of code and continues to write code daily. Building software brings him great joy and he spends much of his free time trying out new ideas. Although he has worked commercially in a large number of languages, he prefers working with Linux, Python, Django.

He has been working on a framework that allows him to go from business idea to a working prototype in a day. This allows for ideas to easily turn into software for a very low cost.

Mark is committed to open source software and makes much of his content open to the public for free.

...

**Read More**

* [MarkSeaman.org](https://markseaman.org/blog/Index.md)

