# Quest for Understanding

But as I cross the threshold of old age, I realize that my life is not yet finished. I am just now
becoming aware of the invitation for the next leg of my journey. Every season of life is dominated
by a primary quest. I believe that the Quest for Understanding lies before me. I accept the quest;
I move through the doorway.

Every quest involves answering complex questions about truth and life and meaning. This quest is no
different. As a young man I was satisfied with simple answers to life's most troubling questions.
Bible verses and platitudes were often enough to scratch the itch. As an old man I still believe in
these simple but often see them a too shallow to steer the decisions in my life. The world is a
complex place that requires an sophisticated understanding.

One question is core to my quest. It organizes all of the other questions that drive me to a deeper
understanding.

How can I make the most of my remaining life? 

To answer this I must resolve other questions.

* What is finishing well? 
* What is my legacy? 
* How can I influence others? 
* How to learn and share wisdom? 
* Who should I be investing in?

Today I have a far deep thirst for enlightenment than I have ever had before. In previous seasons,
my areas of interest were mostly limited to things that could benefit my career. Information that
could not be used immediately was deemed to be a luxury. Now I have time and energy to think about
things at a much deeper level.

...


**Read More**

* [Season of Old Age](https://seamansguide.com/book/journey/SeasonOfOldAge.md)
* [A Seaman's Journey](https://seamansguide.com/book/journey)

