# Winter Season - Old Age (ages 60-80)


I'm just entering my fourth quarter of life.  During this season I hope to bring
together the threads that have run throughout my life.   I believe that this
will be a time of great productivity and fulfillment.

Many people claim that their sixties were the most productive decade of their
life, followed by the seventies, and then fifties. I hope that this will be the
case in my life.  Recently I have begun writing seriously and intend to publish
several books.  I feel like I understand things at a deeper level than I ever
have and wish to share those insights with others.

Most of my life has been a whirlwind of activity and I have often felt unable to
truly live in the experience. In this season of life I intend to slow down and
savor life.  The demands of others have often required me to deny the dreams
that I have had for my own life.  I'm hoping that now there will be time to live
in the current moment.

My past life seasons have been characterized first by success and then by a
sense of purpose.  Both of these are focused on my personal productivity and
contribution through actions.  As a mid-lifer I traded the drive for success for
the significance and meaning that comes from serving others.

I have run the race set before me for the first three quarters. Each season of
life has prepared me for the next.   During Youth I learned who I am and where I
fit in the world.   As an adult I built three successful careers and a lifetime
of ministry.   I created a loving family that continues to thrive.  In mid-life
I moved into activities  in work and home and church to make significant
contributions to the welfare of others.


...

Read More - https://seamansguide.com/journey/SeasonOfOldAge.md
