# Moving to Flagstaff

I was seven when we moved to Flagstaff, Arizona.  Being from Kentucky I had 
never been to an area that was so dry. In Kentucky trees grow naturally and
must be mowed regularly if you intend on having a lawn.  When you look at a map
you see two different Americas (the wet one and the dry one) divided by the 
Mississippi River.

I was moving from the Wet US to the Dry US.  Some areas of northern Arizona are
so dry that no weeds will grow.  The only thing that grows there is rocks and the
rock formations are a natural thing of beauty.

My grew up in Kentucky where most of the race horses are raised - lush and green.
Winslow is 50 miles from Flagstaff and looks as lush as the surface of the moon.
I cannot imagine the sense of dread that my mother must have felt as we 
approached her new home.  She had never been to Flagstaff and had to take my 
dad's word for it that there were trees.

Flagstaff is at the heart of the largest Ponderosa Pine forest in the world.
It sits at the base of the San Francisco Peaks and Mt. Eldon sits in the 
middle of the city.  It is truly beautiful and will always be home in my heart.

I grew up as a kid spending countless hours exploring the woods immediately 
accessible to our home. The ditch, officially Rio de Flag, was half a block from
our house.  Mars Hill was a couple blocks away and Buffalo Park was about a 
mile through the forest.  It was a child's dream with lots of places to get into
trouble.


 ...
Read More - https://seamansguide.com/journey/Flagstaff.md
