# Epistle to the Americans

by St Mark

This scroll was allegedly discovered among the Dead Sea Scrolls, along with
segments of the Old and New Testaments. It is believed to be the first epistle 
to the church in
America.  

The alleged author is St. Mark, the writer of the gospel that bears his name. 
Some have suggested that the author may indeed be Mark Seaman, a lesser saint,
based on the style of the writing.  Many scholars question the authenticity of
the work altogether, citing evidence that the very name of America is based on
the fifteenth century explorer, Amerigo Vespucci.

Whatever the background this work is destined to have an important impact.  You
be the judge.

---

## Chapter 1

### Celebration of Faith

1 Greetings from Mark to the church throughout America and the rest of the
world.  2 I am writing to you to celebrate our wonderful faith and remind you of
truths that God has taught you.

3 From the beginning of civilization God has sought to redeem his people and
give them the rich life by knowing him.  4 Throughout the centuries this truth
has been passed from generation to generation.  Now by God's power you are the
beneficiaries of the blessings of God family inheritance.


### Salvation Plan

5 God came to earth as a man to accomplish what was impossible for any humans to
do.  6 The mystery of the gospel is how the complete Trinity of Father, Son, and
Spirit fulfilled the supernatural work of redemption on the cross. 

7 The resurrection of Jesus, and the imparting of the Spirit in each our lives
allow each of us to experience the fullness of God's presence  in a way that is
beyond our comprehension.  We accept this as the gift of life.

8 The simplicity of the gospel confuses the wisest philosophers and delights the
children of God. 9 God made a way for us to experience him directly and
continually creating a brand new life for each of us that will never end.

---

## Chapter 2

### Community of Believers

1 This redemption is not just intended for individuals as a private experience,
but it is meant to save the entire world.  2 God's plan is to transform entire
families, neighborhoods, communities, regions, and nations with hie love.

3 The invitation is offered to all, "Come follow Me" - just as it was to James,
John, Simon, and Andrew.   4 The invitation is the same to each of us.  Stop
pursuing your own goals and agenda and follow God's plan for every aspect of
your life.

5 The gospel invitation  is simple to understand but difficult to fulfill. To
respond to this invitation I must stop living my life according to my own plans
and start accepting God's right to rule over every decision in my life. This is
the kingdom of God.


### A Hard Road

6 This invitation will not lead us down a road of comfort and riches.  The path
for the follower of Christ will often lead through tragedies and sorrows.  7
True disciples must be willing to take on hatred, humiliation, ridicule, and may
be tortured to death as criminals that are falsely accused.  This is exactly
what Jesus told his disciples.

8 Those who accept the hazards of this hard road will find the glories of God's
mercy and grace.  Unbelievable benefits will be poured onto the people who are
pursuing a life in God's kingdom.   9 Some will be very excited to learn about
all of the benefits of the kingdom but will refuse to follow the King when they
understand the true cost involved.

10 Many will attempt to claim the benefits of the kingdom without wanting to be
under the King's rule.   This leads to the duplicity of trying to be both a
Loyalist and leader in the Rebellion at the same time.  It will end in rebellion
when the true loyalties are revealed.  

11 Each day presents many opportunities to live for my King or live for myself. 
Every day may bring a hundred decisions about whether to follow Christ in this
moment.  12 Over a lifetime there will be several million opportunities to say
"Yes" or "No" to the will of God.  The Christian life is characterized by the
struggle between willfulness and willingness (My Will/Thy Will). 

