# The Early Church

This account of life in the early church is taken directly from the New 
Testament.  It gives us a glimpse of the issues that they faced and what 
we still deal with today.

All this text is taken directly from the New Living Translation of the Bible.
These are words of truth should have a profound impact on how we live our lives
together.

---

## Holy Spirit


During the forty days after his crucifixion, Jesus appeared to the apostles from
time to time, and he proved to them in many ways that he was actually alive. And
he talked to them about the Kingdom of God.

Once when he was eating with them, he commanded them, "Do not leave Jerusalem
until the Father sends you the gift he promised, as I told you before. John
baptized with water, but in just a few days you will be baptized with the Holy
Spirit.” 

On the day of Pentecost all the believers were meeting together in one place.
Suddenly, there was a sound from heaven like the roaring of a mighty windstorm,
and it filled the house where they were sitting. Then, what looked like flames
or tongues of fire appeared and settled on each of them. And everyone present
was filled with the Holy Spirit and began speaking in other languages, as the
Holy Spirit gave them this ability.

At that time there were devout Jews from every nation living in Jerusalem. When
they heard the loud noise, everyone came running, and they were bewildered to
hear their own languages being spoken by the believers. 


## Turn to God

Then Peter stepped forward with the eleven other apostles and shouted to the
crowd, "Listen carefully, all of you, fellow Jews and residents of Jerusalem!
People of Israel, listen! God publicly endorsed Jesus the Nazarene by doing
powerful miracles, wonders, and signs through him, as you well know. But God
knew what would happen, and his prearranged plan was carried out when Jesus was
betrayed. With the help of lawless Gentiles, you nailed him to a cross and
killed him. But God released him from the horrors of death and raised him back
to life, for death could not keep him in its grip.”

"So let everyone in Israel know for certain that God has made this Jesus, whom
"you crucified, to be both Lord and Messiah!” Peter's words pierced their
"hearts, and they said to him and to the other apostles, "Brothers, what should
"we do?”

Peter replied, "Each of you must repent of your sins and turn to God, and be
baptized in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins. Then you
will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. This promise is to you, and to your
children, and even to the Gentiles—all who have been called by the Lord our
God.” Then Peter continued preaching for a long time, strongly urging all his
listeners, "Save yourselves from this crooked generation!” 

Those who believed what Peter said were baptized and added to the church that
day—about 3,000 in all. 


## Life Together

All the believers devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching, and to
fellowship, and to sharing in meals (including the Lord's Supper), and to
prayer.A deep sense of awe came over them all, and the apostles performed many
miraculous signs and wonders. And all the believers met together in one place
and shared everything they had.

They sold their property and possessions and shared the money with those in
need. They worshiped together at the Temple each day, met in homes for the
Lord's Supper, and shared their meals with great joy and generosity— all the
while praising God and enjoying the goodwill of all the people. And each day
the Lord added to their fellowship those who were being saved.


## Opposition from the Religious Leaders

While Peter and John were speaking to the people, they were confronted by the
priests, the captain of the Temple guard, and some of the Sadducees. These
leaders were very disturbed that Peter and John were teaching the people that
through Jesus there is a resurrection of the dead. They arrested them and, since
it was already evening, put them in jail until morning. But many of the people
who heard their message believed it, so the number of believers now totaled
about 5,000 men, not counting women and children.

There is salvation in no one else! God has given no other name under heaven by
which we must be saved.” 

The members of the council were amazed when they saw the boldness of Peter and
John, for they could see that they were ordinary men with no special training in
the Scriptures. They also recognized them as men who had been with Jesus. But
since they could see the man who had been healed standing right there among
them, there was nothing the council could say. So they ordered Peter and John
out of the council chamber and conferred among themselves. 


## You Can't Silence Us

"What should we do with these men?” they asked each other. "We can't deny that
"they have performed a miraculous sign, and everybody in Jerusalem knows about
"it. But to keep them from spreading their propaganda any further, we must warn
"them not to speak to anyone in Jesus' name again.” So they called the apostles
"back in and commanded them never again to speak or teach in the name of Jesus. 

But Peter and John replied, "Do you think God wants us to obey you rather than
him? We cannot stop telling about everything we have seen and heard.” 

The council then threatened them further, but they finally let them go because
they didn't know how to punish them without starting a riot. For everyone was
praising God for this miraculous sign—the healing of a man who had been lame for
more than forty years. 

As soon as they were freed, Peter and John returned to the other believers and
told them what the leading priests and elders had said. When they heard the
report, all the believers lifted their voices together in prayer to God.After
this prayer, the meeting place shook, and they were all filled with the Holy
Spirit. Then they preached the word of God with boldness.


## Sharing Resources

All the believers were united in heart and mind. And they felt that what they
owned was not their own, so they shared everything they had. The apostles
testified powerfully to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and God's great
blessing was upon them all. There were no needy people among them, because those
who owned land or houses would sell them and bring the money to the apostles to
give to those in need.

The apostles were performing many miraculous signs and wonders among the people.
And all the believers were meeting regularly at the Temple in the area known as
Solomon's Colonnade. But no one else dared to join them, even though all the
people had high regard for them. Yet more and more people believed and were
brought to the Lord—crowds of both men and women. As a result of the apostles'
work, sick people were brought out into the streets on beds and mats so that
Peter's shadow might fall across some of them as he went by. Crowds came from
the villages around Jerusalem, bringing their sick and those possessed by evil
spirits, and they were all healed.

The high priest and his officials, who were Sadducees, were filled with
jealousy. They arrested the apostles and put them in the public jail. But an
angel of the Lord came at night, opened the gates of the jail, and brought them
out. Then he told them, "Go to the Temple and give the people this message of
life!” So at daybreak the apostles entered the Temple, as they were told, and
immediately began teaching.


## Arrested for Teaching

When the high priest and his officials arrived, they convened the high
council—the full assembly of the elders of Israel. Then they sent for the
apostles to be brought from the jail for trial. But when the Temple guards
went to the jail, the men were gone. So they returned to the council and
reported, "The jail was securely locked, with the guards standing outside,
but when we opened the gates, no one was there!” 

When the captain of the Temple guard and the leading priests heard this, they
were perplexed, wondering where it would all end. Then someone arrived with
startling news: "The men you put in jail are standing in the Temple, teaching
the people!” 

The captain went with his Temple guards and arrested the apostles, but without
violence, for they were afraid the people would stone them. Then they brought
the apostles before the high council, where the high priest confronted them.
"Didn't we tell you never again to teach in this man's name?” he demanded.
"Instead, you have filled all Jerusalem with your teaching about him, and you
want to make us responsible for his death!” 


## The Line is Drawn

But Peter and the apostles replied, "We must obey God rather than any human
authority. The God of our ancestors raised Jesus from the dead after you killed
him by hanging him on a cross. Then God put him in the place of honor at his
right hand as Prince and Savior. He did this so the people of Israel would
repent of their sins and be forgiven. We are witnesses of these things and so is
the Holy Spirit, who is given by God to those who obey him.” 

When they heard this, the high council was furious and decided to kill them.The
apostles left the high council rejoicing that God had counted them worthy to
suffer disgrace for the name of Jesus. And every day, in the Temple and from
house to house, they continued to teach and preach this message: "Jesus is the
Messiah.”


## Social Justice

But as the believers rapidly multiplied, there were rumblings of discontent. The
Greek-speaking believers complained about the Hebrew-speaking believers, saying
that their widows were being discriminated against in the daily distribution of
food.

So the Twelve called a meeting of all the believers. They said, "We apostles
should spend our time teaching the word of God, not running a food program. And
so, brothers, select seven men who are well respected and are full of the Spirit
and wisdom. We will give them this responsibility. Then we apostles can spend
our time in prayer and teaching the word.” 


## Rich Relationships

So God's message continued to spread. The number of believers greatly increased
in Jerusalem, and many of the Jewish priests were converted, too.

And so, dear brothers and sisters, I plead with you to give your bodies to God
because of all he has done for you. Let them be a living and holy sacrifice—the
kind he will find acceptable. This is truly the way to worship him. Don't copy
the behavior and customs of this world, but let God transform you into a new
person by changing the way you think. Then you will learn to know God's will for
you, which is good and pleasing and perfect.


## Humility

Because of the privilege and authority God has given me, I give each of you this
warning: Don't think you are better than you really are. Be honest in your
evaluation of yourselves, measuring yourselves by the faith God has given us.
Just as our bodies have many parts and each part has a special function, so it
is with Christ's body. We are many parts of one body, and we all belong to each
other. 

In his grace, God has given us different gifts for doing certain things well. So
if God has given you the ability to prophesy, speak out with as much faith as
God has given you. If your gift is serving others, serve them well. If you are a
teacher, teach well. If your gift is to encourage others, be encouraging. If it
is giving, give generously. If God has given you leadership ability, take the
responsibility seriously. And if you have a gift for showing kindness to others,
do it gladly. 


## Integrity

Don't just pretend to love others. Really love them. Hate what is wrong. Hold
tightly to what is good. Love each other with genuine affection, and take
delight in honoring each other. Never be lazy, but work hard and serve the Lord
enthusiastically. Rejoice in our confident hope. Be patient in trouble, and keep
on praying. When God's people are in need, be ready to help them. Always be
eager to practice hospitality. 

Bless those who persecute you. Don't curse them; pray that God will bless them.
Be happy with those who are happy, and weep with those who weep. Live in harmony
with each other. Don't be too proud to enjoy the company of ordinary people. And
don't think you know it all! 

Never pay back evil with more evil. Do things in such a way that everyone can
see you are honorable. Do all that you can to live in peace with everyone. 


## Spiritual Gifts

Now, dear brothers and sisters, regarding your question about the special
abilities the Spirit gives us. I don't want you to misunderstand this. You know
that when you were still pagans, you were led astray and swept along in
worshiping speechless idols. So I want you to know that no one speaking by the
Spirit of God will curse Jesus, and no one can say Jesus is Lord, except by the
Holy Spirit.

There are different kinds of spiritual gifts, but the same Spirit is the source
of them all. There are different kinds of service, but we serve the same Lord.
God works in different ways, but it is the same God who does the work in all of
us. 

A spiritual gift is given to each of us so we can help each other. To one person
the Spirit gives the ability to give wise advice; to another the same Spirit
gives a message of special knowledge. The same Spirit gives great faith to
another, and to someone else the one Spirit gives the gift of healing. He gives
one person the power to perform miracles, and another the ability to prophesy.
He gives someone else the ability to discern whether a message is from the
Spirit of God or from another spirit. Still another person is given the ability
to speak in unknown languages, while another is given the ability to interpret
what is being said. It is the one and only Spirit who distributes all these
gifts. He alone decides which gift each person should have. 


## Interdependence

The human body has many parts, but the many parts make up one whole body. So it
is with the body of Christ. Some of us are Jews, some are Gentiles, some are
slaves, and some are free. But we have all been baptized into one body by one
Spirit, and we all share the same Spirit.

Yes, the body has many different parts, not just one part. If the foot says, "I
am not a part of the body because I am not a hand,” that does not make it any
less a part of the body. And if the ear says, "I am not part of the body because
I am not an eye,” would that make it any less a part of the body? If the whole
body were an eye, how would you hear? Or if your whole body were an ear, how
would you smell anything? 

But our bodies have many parts, and God has put each part just where he wants
it. How strange a body would be if it had only one part! Yes, there are many
parts, but only one body. The eye can never say to the hand, "I don't need you.”
The head can't say to the feet, "I don't need you.” 

In fact, some parts of the body that seem weakest and least important are
actually the most necessary. And the parts we regard as less honorable are those
we clothe with the greatest care. So we carefully protect those parts that
should not be seen, while the more honorable parts do not require this special
care. So God has put the body together such that extra honor and care are given
to those parts that have less dignity. This makes for harmony among the members,
so that all the members care for each other. If one part suffers, all the parts
suffer with it, and if one part is honored, all the parts are glad. 


## Synergy

All of you together are Christ's body, and each of you is a part of it. Here are
some of the parts God has appointed for the church: 

* first are apostles,
* second are prophets,
* third are teachers,
* then those who do miracles,
* those who have the gift of healing,
* those who can help others,
* those who have the gift of leadership,
* those who speak in unknown languages. 

Are we all apostles? Are we all prophets? Are we all teachers? Do we all have
the power to do miracles? Do we all have the gift of healing? Do we all have the
ability to speak in unknown languages? Do we all have the ability to interpret
unknown languages? Of course not! So you should earnestly desire the most
helpful gifts. 

But now let me show you a way of life that is best of all.

Now these are the gifts Christ gave to the church: the apostles, the prophets,
the evangelists, and the pastors and teachers. Their responsibility is to equip
God's people to do his work and build up the church, the body of Christ. This
will continue until we all come to such unity in our faith and knowledge of
God's Son that we will be mature in the Lord, measuring up to the full and
complete standard of Christ.


## Health and Growth

Then we will no longer be immature like children. We won't be tossed and blown
about by every wind of new teaching. We will not be influenced when people try
to trick us with lies so clever they sound like the truth. Instead, we will
speak the truth in love, growing in every way more and more like Christ, who is
the head of his body, the church. He makes the whole body fit together
perfectly. As each part does its own special work, it helps the other parts
grow, so that the whole body is healthy and growing and full of love. 

With the Lord's authority I say this: Live no longer as the Gentiles do, for
they are hopelessly confused. Their minds are full of darkness; they wander far
from the life God gives because they have closed their minds and hardened their
hearts against him. They have no sense of shame. They live for lustful pleasure
and eagerly practice every kind of impurity.


## New Lifestyle

But that isn't what you learned about Christ. Since you have heard about Jesus
and have learned the truth that comes from him, throw off your old sinful nature
and your former way of life, which is corrupted by lust and deception. Instead,
let the Spirit renew your thoughts and attitudes. Put on your new nature,
created to be like God—truly righteous and holy. 

So stop telling lies. Let us tell our neighbors the truth, for we are all parts
of the same body. And "don't sin by letting anger control you.” Don't let the
sun go down while you are still angry, for anger gives a foothold to the devil. 

If you are a thief, quit stealing. Instead, use your hands for good hard work,
and then give generously to others in need. Don't use foul or abusive language.
Let everything you say be good and helpful, so that your words will be an
encouragement to those who hear them. 


## Transformation

And do not bring sorrow to God's Holy Spirit by the way you live. Remember, he
has identified you as his own, guaranteeing that you will be saved on the day of
redemption. 

Get rid of all bitterness, rage, anger, harsh words, and slander, as well as all
types of evil behavior. Instead, be kind to each other, tenderhearted, forgiving
one another, just as God through Christ has forgiven you.

Imitate God, therefore, in everything you do, because you are his dear children.
Live a life filled with love, following the example of Christ. He loved us and
offered himself as a sacrifice for us, a pleasing aroma to God.

Let there be no sexual immorality, impurity, or greed among you. Such sins have
no place among God's people. Obscene stories, foolish talk, and coarse
jokes—these are not for you. Instead, let there be thankfulness to God. You can
be sure that no immoral, impure, or greedy person will inherit the Kingdom of
Christ and of God. For a greedy person is an idolater, worshiping the things of
this world. 

Don't be fooled by those who try to excuse these sins, for the anger of God will
fall on all who disobey him. Don't participate in the things these people do.
For once you were full of darkness, but now you have light from the Lord. So
live as people of light! For this light within you produces only what is good
and right and true. 

Carefully determine what pleases the Lord. Take no part in the worthless deeds
of evil and darkness; instead, expose them. It is shameful even to talk about
the things that ungodly people do in secret. But their evil intentions will be
exposed when the light shines on them, for the light makes everything visible. 


## Live Wisely

So be careful how you live. Don't live like fools, but like those who are
wise. Make the most of every opportunity in these evil days. Don't act
thoughtlessly, but understand what the Lord wants you to do. Don't be drunk
with wine, because that will ruin your life. Instead, be filled with the Holy
Spirit, singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs among yourselves, and
making music to the Lord in your hearts. And give thanks for everything to God
the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.

Well, my brothers and sisters, let's summarize. When you meet together, one
will sing, another will teach, another will tell some special revelation God
has given, one will speak in tongues, and another will interpret what is said.
But everything that is done must strengthen all of you.

Let two or three people prophesy, and let the others evaluate what is said.
But if someone is prophesying and another person receives a revelation from
the Lord, the one who is speaking must stop. In this way, all who prophesy
will have a turn to speak, one after the other, so that everyone will learn
and be encouraged. Remember that people who prophesy are in control of their
spirit and can take turns. For God is not a God of disorder but of peace, as
in all the meetings of God's holy people. 


## Learning From Pain

Dear brothers and sisters, when troubles come your way, consider it an
opportunity for great joy. For you know that when your faith is tested, your
endurance has a chance to grow. So let it grow, for when your endurance is fully
developed, you will be perfect and complete, needing nothing.

If you need wisdom, ask our generous God, and he will give it to you. He will
not rebuke you for asking. But when you ask him, be sure that your faith is in
God alone. Do not waver, for a person with divided loyalty is as unsettled as a
wave of the sea that is blown and tossed by the wind. Such people should not
expect to receive anything from the Lord. Their loyalty is divided between God
and the world, and they are unstable in everything they do.

Believers who are poor have something to boast about, for God has honored them.
And those who are rich should boast that God has humbled them. They will fade
away like a little flower in the field. The hot sun rises and the grass withers;
the little flower droops and falls, and its beauty fades away. In the same way,
the rich will fade away with all of their achievements.


## Dealing with Temptation

God blesses those who patiently endure testing and temptation. Afterward they
will receive the crown of life that God has promised to those who love him. And
remember, when you are being tempted, do not say, "God is tempting me.” God is
never tempted to do wrong, and he never tempts anyone else. Temptation comes
from our own desires, which entice us and drag us away. These desires give birth
to sinful actions. And when sin is allowed to grow, it gives birth to death.

So don't be misled, my dear brothers and sisters. Whatever is good and perfect
comes down to us from God our Father, who created all the lights in the heavens.
He never changes or casts a shifting shadow. He chose to give birth to us by
giving us his true word. And we, out of all creation, became his prized
possession.


## Control What You Say

Understand this, my dear brothers and sisters: You must all be quick to listen,
slow to speak, and slow to get angry. Human anger does not produce the
righteousness God desires. So get rid of all the filth and evil in your lives,
and humbly accept the word God has planted in your hearts, for it has the power
to save your souls.

But don't just listen to God's word. You must do what it says. Otherwise, you
are only fooling yourselves. For if you listen to the word and don't obey, it is
like glancing at your face in a mirror. You see yourself, walk away, and forget
what you look like. But if you look carefully into the perfect law that sets you
free, and if you do what it says and don't forget what you heard, then God will
bless you for doing it.

If you claim to be religious but don't control your tongue, you are fooling
yourself, and your religion is worthless. Pure and genuine religion in the sight
of God the Father means caring for orphans and widows in their distress and
refusing to let the world corrupt you.

