# All Growth is Spiritual

I've always been fascinated by both Spiritual Growth and Personal Growth. I often considered these
as being isolated dimensions of my life. It was as if these each offered alternative views of what
it meant to be a successful human.

Until recently most of my reading didn't integrate these two viewpoints at all. Spiritual writers
provided little insight into psychology and psychologists would not even broach the subject of
spiritual truths. This gap was reflected in my own thinking. I learned to see that while both the
Sacred and Profane areas of life were important that they were not integrated in any meaningful
way.

Spiritual Growth is concerned with spiritual development. It defines a worldview of God and the
Devil, angels and demons, heaven and hell, redemption and sin. These glorious concepts are
important to our spirits but do not relate to our physical lives. They are confined to religious
activity: Prayer, Bible study, Worship, Fasting, and Church.

Personal Growth is concerned with the psychological development. Learning to live the good life is
the domain of Self-Improvement books and teachings. It deals with Logic, Goal setting, Psychology
of Mental Health, Emotional Intelligence, Success and Happiness. Personal growth is about how to be
a better human and is completely silent about anything spiritual or supernatural.

This separation between physical and spiritual realities is unnatural and unhealthy. It is vital
that we integrate these together in our understanding. Mental and spiritual health are integrally
connected and cannot be achieved without taking a more holistic view. 

...

**Read More**

* [All Growth is Spiritual](https://seamansguide.com/book/quest/SpiritualGrowth.md)
* [A Seaman's Quest](https://seamansguide.com/book/quest)

