# Ben Franklin

Excerpt from https://thinkr.org/books/benjamin-franklin-an-american-life

---

The Franklin family maintained a proud tradition of free thinking and independence going back to the 1500s at least.

Toward the end of the Middle Ages, a new demographic  began to emerge in rural England. They were neither nobility nor  peasants, but they were wealthy and owned land. They were not loyal to a  lord or bound to a plot of his land, but were known as "frankeleyns” or  freemen. In those days, nobility would use their realm as a last name,  whereas laborers and craftsmen identified themselves by their  profession, like Smith or Taylor. The Franklins were recognized by their  independence.

The earliest record of Benjamin Franklin's forebears dates back to  his great-great-great-grandfather, Thomas Francklyne, born in the  mid-1500s in a hamlet near Ecton. His reputation for rejecting arbitrary  political and religious authority became something of a legend among  the Franklins, and almost got him in trouble at times.

When Mary Queen of Scots reinstated the authority of the Catholic  Church in England, Thomas Francklyne insisted on holding on to his own  Bible to read and interpret for himself. He created a compartment on the  underside of a stool that could be readily hidden in the event that a  nosy civil servant happened to check in on the family.

This strain of subversion, inventiveness, and freethinking lived on  in subsequent generations. Many of Thomas' descendants were  non-conformists, handy craftsmen, voracious readers, talented writers,  and lovers of learning. They often had firm beliefs, but these were  wrapped in a winsome levity.

...


**Read More**

* [Benjamin Franklin: An American Life](https://thinkr.org/books/benjamin-franklin-an-american-life)

