# The Magic of Flagstaff

Flagstaff is a magical town. Nested under the watchful eye of the San Francisco
peaks and surrounded by pine forests. The peaks have been considered the source
of power by the native people for hundreds of years.

100 years have passed since the first white men came with their logging operations
and railroad. They tried to drive the magic from the area but the medicine
still lingers in places.

Next came the tourists, with their caravans of families on a quest to see the
Great Canyon. Soon cheap hotels with neon lights and crying children ruled over
the town.

Then came the scientists with their equipment. They brought with them the belief
that magic could be quantified, studied, understood, and harnessed. They
were called geologists, anthropologists, foresters, astronomers, and
astronauts. Each of these men brought their conceit and a will to contain
the magic.

The town held 30,000 souls. Throughout the
sixties, its character was shaped by tourism and science and logging. The native
peoples were very much a part of the town and made the place special. There is
nowhere, in any land, another place like Flagstaff.

Many ancient peoples lived in this area of the land. The Hopi and Pueblo tribes
have roots that go back in time before Columbus and Queen Elizabeth. The white
men are the newcomers to this party.


...

**Read More**

* [Adventures of Flagstaff](https://seamansguide.com/journey/Flagstaff.md)
* [A Seaman's Journey](https://seamansguide.com/journey)



