# Stories To Tell Before I Die

There are many events that have shaped my life. These stories need to be told
and I intend to do that. Looking back on my life I see the extraordinary
opportunities to experience things that few others have.

My family background positioned me toward adventure. From a young age my father
instilled in me a love of learning and travel that has altered the course of my
life.

In every decade, I have witnessed huge changes in the world around me. It has
been my privilege to often be on the forefront of the change. I created a
software development company, called Shrinking World Solutions, to acknowledge
how quickly the world is evolving.

In the last few years change has only accelerated. It will not slow down. Many
of the stories that need to be told are an attempt to explain how we got here
and to understand how we can best move forward.

When I started to tell my life story I began by creating a "Life Event Map". It
is essentially a table of years and events that happened in each year. There are
three columns to track: Travel, Work, Family.

Every year something extraordinary and noteworthy happened in my world. I have
selected from each year an event that had a significant impact on my life.
Rather than a chronological history I have sought to capture the emotions of the
moment in each story.

We are all changed by what we experience. But perhaps even more than the
experience itself, is the meaning that we assign to it. We can all remember key
events where vows were made that would alter the rest of our lives. Those are
the stories that I have sought to convey.


...

**Read More**

* [Stories To Tell](https://seamansguide.com/book/journey/StoriesToTell.md)
* [A Seaman's Journey](https://seamansguide.com/book/journey/StoriesToTell.md)

