## Project 14 - Software Planner


### Overview

The purpose of this project is to gain practical experience planning a software project.  During this
course, you built 14 different projects.  Each of these small steps was combined into a single
medium-sized software application.  

For Project 14 you will simulate the project planning process for the software that you have already
completed.  In a commercial project, you would have had at least seven client-checkpoint meetings
throughout the project.  Imagine that you were to meet with the client at the end of weeks 2, 4,
6, 8, 10, 12, and 14.  Consider these to be Milestones 1-7.

During each of these meetings, you would have shown the work that you completed and planned the work
for the next milestone.  You will write up the notes as if you were meeting with the customer.  For
each meeting, you will provide two paragraphs or bullet lists.

* **Past work** - accomplishments
    * Requirements, Design, Code, Test completed
    * New skills learned
    * Design patterns used
    * Any loose ends to resolve
* **Future work** - product backlog/sprint plan
    * Requirements, Design, Code, Test to do
    * New skills you need to learn
    * Challenges to resolve

Create a report within your code repository with a markdown file named "Superhero/ProjectPlan.md".
Create H2 headings for the seven milestones and H3 headings for DONE, and TO DO.  Show the content
listed for each milestone.

This project plan can serve as a model for your next software projects.  Let it guide you through 
the work that will need to be done.  Remember that the next app you write will be 90% similar to
the last app you did. Only create the 10% that is unique and leverage the 90% that is similar.
