# Lesson 5 - Basic Django Application

## Creating an Application


### Programming Environment
* Visual Studio Code
* Github website
* Github repo
* Python with Django
* Terminal with Python in Path
* Hosting service provider


### Verify Your Setup
* Run Visual Studio code
* New terminal
    * cd 03/Superhero  
* Run dev server
    * python manage.py runserver
* Browse to http://127.0.0.1


### Development Workflow
* Create code
* Test in local web browser
* Development with specific features
* Development Loop
* Deploy and test remote server


### Make changes
* One feature at a time (baby steps)
    * Write one line of code
    * Test it
    * If it fails fix it
    * If it works simplify
* Commit code every 5 to 10 features
* Deploy on server every hour


### Testing Web Pages
* Test locally before deploy
* Deploy on remote service provider
* Verify the build and deployment succeeded 


### How Does Django Work?
* Create a Django project
* Create a Django app (module)
* Custom settings
* Create a Template with HTML
* Create a View in Python
* Create a URL route


### Test the Page
* Use terminal to run development server
* Save code and refresh browser
* Test at least once per minute
* Commit changes every 10-15 minutes


### Commit and Push
* Push code every hour
* Wait for deploy while you take a mental break


### Create a Project

    $ cd Superhero

    $ django-admin startproject config .

    $ python manage.py startapp hero


Examine the files used to build the Django application.

    ├── config
    │   ├── settings.py
    │   ├── urls.py
    │   └── wsgi.py
    ├── hero
    │   ├── models.py
    │   ├── templates
    │   ├── tests.py
    │   ├── urls.py
    │   └── views.py
    ├── manage.py
    ├── requirements.txt
    ├── runtime.txt
    └── static
        └── index.html



### Custom Settings

We need to customize the **settings.py** file to describe our application details.  We set up
INSTALLED_APPS to include the **hero** app.  We also set ALLOWED_HOSTS to limit the domains that 
will be used to make HTTP requests.  For now, we will allow all domains to make requests to our 
server.

**config/settings.py**

    # Enable data the "hero" app
    INSTALLED_APPS = [
        'django.contrib.admin',
        'django.contrib.auth',
        'django.contrib.contenttypes',
        'django.contrib.sessions',
        'django.contrib.messages',
        'django.contrib.staticfiles',
        'hero',
    ]

    # Handle all URL requests made to web server no matter what name is used
    ALLOWED_HOSTS = ['*']

    # URL routes to use
    ROOT_URLCONF = 'config.urls'

    # On Digital Ocean it will use the Static Server
    # Locally you need to enable the static media server (Images, CSS, Javascript)
    STATIC_URL = '/static/'
    STATICFILES_DIRS = [BASE_DIR / "static"]


### Create a Template View

Create a Template, View, and URL route
 
The template view is a quick way to display an HTML template within Django.  

Inherit Python code from TemplateView and set the name of the template file to display.

Django will do everything else that is needed to show the desired content


**templates/hulk.html**

    <h1>Hulk</h1>
    <p>Secret identity:  Bruce Banner</p>


**hero/views.py**

    class HulkView(TemplateView):
        template_name = 'hulk.html'



Declare the URL route for the HTTP request.

When the page is requested the Python view code is called to form the response.

**config/urls.py**

    from django.urls import path
    from .views import HulkView

    urlpatterns = [
        path('hulk', HulkView.as_view()),
    ]

  

### Test the Page

Run the development server from a terminal window.

    $ python manage.py runserver

Browse to the web page at **http://localhost:8000** or **http://127.0.0.1:8000** 



### Commit and Push

Commit changes to your local git repo.

    $ git add .
    $ git status
    $ git commit -m 'Create Superhero app' 
    $ git status

Push changes to Github.

    $ git push
    $ git status


Build will automatically start at Digital Ocean when the repo changes.

After the app is deployed test it to make sure it didn't break.

