# Striving and Succeeding

It was difficult to start on the road to teaching.  The university did not really have any way to
integrate new teachers into the process.  It requires a certain kind of person to manage themselves
with no support, but I knew at the time that I was walking into a crisis.  I have learned that I
actually thrive in intense challenges that will sink most people.

Fortunately, I had many years of web development and software engineering to draw from.  I knew the
subject matter extremely well; I just needed to learn the process of teaching. 

I was also willing to pay the steep price to create materials, grade assignments, create and deliver
lectures, and mentor students.  I suspect that few others would be willing to pay this price.

Early on, I adopted the posture of a learner.  Everything I did was viewed as an experiment.  The
things that worked I standardized and what didn't work was never repeated.  Over a brief time this
yielded practical methods for teaching students the skills they need.  This constant improvement
paradigm is thoroughly ingrained in the software industry and was now employed in the classroom as
well.

That first semester was a crash course in teaching.  Within seven weeks I had responded to two
emergency startups with no previous preparation time.  This taught me that it is possible to learn
and teach at the same time and that everything is a grand experiment anyway.  I have incorporated
these key lessons into my life philosophy.

...

**Read More**

* [Discovering Teaching](https://seamansguide.com/book/journey/Teaching.md)
* [A Seaman's Journey](https://seamansguide.com/book/journey)

