# Moving Toward Freedom

I have a very intense need to create.  Engineering, Writing, and Teaching are all an expression of
this fundamental need to create. Each of these roles provides opportunity for self-expression.  I
have done these things since I was a child and cannot envision a life that did not allow them.  It
is who I am: Inventor, Writer, Teacher.

What would I do if money were no object?  This is a very pertinent question now. A lifetime of
diligence has created a situation where the job is not required for success.  So it begs the
question.  What will I do with my life? What new goals am I now free to pursue?  If money is not
the object what is?

Saving for retirement is a practice that I started over 40 years ago. It was my dream to be able to
focus all of my attention on creative interests and not have to work for others in order to produce
income. While working out the details of this for my life over the last four decades, I believe
that I have uncovered some truths that could greatly benefit others.

There are a simple set of principles and practices that will lead you on a path toward financial
freedom. While these concepts are simple, it does not mean that they are easy. Applying these ideas
requires a great deal of internal fortitude and discipline. I have watch so many of my friends and
family choose a path of poverty that removes any possibility of financial freedom. This gives me
motivation to promote the practices that can lead anyone toward freedom.

No one gets rich over night. But everyone can reach a level where they can stop working and live at
the same standard of living without a job. This is the goal of Simple Investing - not to become
wealthy, but to become free.


...

**Read More**

* [Retirement](https://shrinking-world.com/blog/Retirement)
* [Shrinking World Tech Notes](https://shrinking-world.com/blog)

