# Incoming Aircraft

Kimon stood on the hillside not far from his small village. He was in shock and awe. Airplanes kept
rolling in ... wave after wave. It must have been terrifying and mesmerizing.

He had probably heard his parents discuss the war but did not believe that it would never come here.
But now the planes were coming in faster than anyone could imagine. The planes where filled with
soldiers coming to bring death to everyone that opposed them. The sky was filled with parachutes as
the men raced toward the ground so that their work could begin. They were on a mission of great
importance, creating a foothold for what to follow.

As a boy of ten, Kimon could not understand the changes that were about to happen to his peaceful
village home. But he knew it was bad ... really bad. It took eleven days for the Nazis to
completely subdue Crete, and bring it under the shroud of Mordor. By late May in 1941 it was a done
deal.

But the true evil released that day was a culmination of events that were set in motion twenty-one
years earlier in a country far to the north. Hitler made his first play for government in 1923 in
Munich. About two thousand men marched to the center of town, where they confronted the police
resulting in the death of sixteen Nazis and four policemen. Hitler himself was wounded during the
clash.

Although he was charged with treason he converted his trial to an opportunity to publicize in
nationalist agenda. He captured headlines and become the talk of the nation. He was sentenced to
five years in prison and served nine months, when he documented his plan for world domination that
he almost achieved.


...

**Read More**

* [Adventures in Greece](https://seamansguide.com/book/journey/Greece.md)
* [A Seaman's Journey](https://seamansguide.com/book/journey)

